Input:
LUs: алкать > жаждать > желать
Example: алчущий взор.
FN Name: Desiring
FN Core FEs: Experiencer > Event > Focal_participant > Location_of_event
FN Definition: An Experiencer desires that an Event occur.  (Note that commonly a resultant state of the Event will stand in for the Event.)  In some cases, the Experiencer is an active participant in the Event, and in such cases the Event itself is often not mentioned, but rather some Focal_participant which is subordinately involved in the Event. ''Generally, the use of a word in this frame implies that the specific Event has not yet happened, but that the Experiencer believes that they would be happier if it did.  Sometimes the Time_of_event, Purpose_of_event, or the Location_of_event are mentioned without the explicit mention of the Event. 'I only wanted one piece of candy.' 'The company was eager for him to leave as soon as possible.' 'Susan really wishes that you 'd listen to her.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Experiencer is the person (or sentient being) who wishes for the Event to occur. > The change that the Experiencer would like to see. > This is the entity that the Experiencer wishes to be affected by some Event. > The Location_of_event is the place involved in the desired Event.  'I want that box on top of the other one.' 'The prince wishes you here before matins.' 


Input:
LUs: аплодировать > восторгаться > проявить
Example: Все аплодировали хору .
FN Name: Judgment
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Evaluee > Reason > Expressor
FN Definition: A Cognizer makes a judgment about an Evaluee. The judgment may be positive (e.g. respect) or negative (e.g. condemn), and this information is recorded in the semantic types Positive and Negative on the Lexical Units of this frame. There may be a specific Reason for the Cognizer's judgment, or there may be a capacity or Role in which the Evaluee is judged.  '' This frame is distinct from the Judgment_communication frame in that this frame does not involve the Cognizer communicating his or her judgment to an Addressee.   'JUDGMENT:  She admired Einstein for his character.' 'JUDGMENT_COMMUNICATION:  She accused Einstein of collusion.' '' Currently, however, some lexical units and annotation for both remain in this frame.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Cognizer makes the judgment. This role is typically expressed as the External Argument (or in a by-PP in passives). 'The boss appreciates you for your diligence.' 'The boss is very appreciative of my work.' > Evaluee is the person or thing about whom/which a judgment is made. With verbs this FE is typically expressed as Object:  'The boss appreciates you for your diligence. ' > Typically, there is a constituent expressing the Reason for the Judge's judgment. It is usually a for-PP, e.g. 'I admire you for your intellect.'  > Expressor is the body part or action by a body part that conveys the judgment made by the Cognizer.  'She viewed him with an appreciative gaze.'


Input:
LUs: владеть
Example: Людьми владеют страсти.
FN Name: Being_in_control
FN Core FEs: Controlling_entity > Dependent_entity
FN Definition: A Controlling_entity has control of a Dependent_entity, Dependent_situation, or Dependent_variable.   'She was in control of the empire within two days.'  This frame is distinct from Control in that the Controlling_entity is not fully asserted to be currently controlling the Dependent_entity, Dependent_situation, or Dependent_variable, but rather is attentive to it and capable of making the situation correspond to the desired state at any time.
FN Core FEs definitions: A thing or person whose behavior controls a Dependent_entity, Dependent_situation, or Dependent_variable. > An entity, usually a thing, that is influenced in its behavior by a Controlling_entity.


Input:
LUs: арестовать
Example: Был отдан приказ арестовать трех видных революционеров за агитацию в войсках .
FN Name: Arrest
FN Core FEs: Charges > Authorities > Suspect > Offense
FN Definition: Authorities charge a Suspect, who is under suspicion of having committed a crime (the Charges), and take him/her into custody.'The police arrested Harry on charges of manslaughter.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Charges identifies a category within the legal system; it is the crime with which the Suspect is charged.'The police arrested Harry on charges of manslaughter.' > The Authorities charge the Suspect with commiting a crime, and take him/her into custody.'The police arrested Harry on charges of manslaughter.' > The Suspect is taken into custody, under suspicion of having committed a crime.'The police arrested Harry on charges of manslaughter.' > Offense identifies the ordinary language use of the reason for which a Suspect is arrested.  'They arrested Harry for shoplifting.'


Input:
LUs: ассоциировать
Example: Ионы бария ассоциируют с ионами хлора.
FN Name: Relating_concepts
FN Core FEs: Concept_1 > Concept_2 > Evidence > Concepts
FN Definition: A Concept_1 is related to Concept_2 by some Evidence.   'The single remaining piece of evidence linked Kirov the tailor to Kirov the dissident activist.'  'There is ample data relating earnings to years of schooling.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The concept which is linked to Concept_2.    'High death rates among smokers connect cigarettes with disease.' > The concept which is tied to Concept_1.    'Skid marks on the street connects my neighbor's car to my broken mailbox.' > The phenomenon that points to or proves the connection between Concept_1 and Concept_2. Generally expressed as an external.  'Footprints connect her to the crime.'  > The two concepts expressed jointly.  'Ample evidence is able to connect the two.'


Input:
LUs: баловать > дирижировать > заботиться > осуществить
Example: Пусть молодые балуют.
FN Name: Conduct
FN Core FEs: Agent > Manner
FN Definition: An Agent acts in a certain Manner either generally or under some particular Circumstances. The conduct may also be directed specifically towards an Affected_party.  ' He pledges to  conduct himself  with honesty and humility.' ' This year they have behaved themselves particularly impudently.' ' His appearance was as   immaculate as ever and his bearing  composed and dignified. '
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE marks expressions that denote the person whose conduct is being evaluated.  'Douglas Hurd carried himself well ' > This FE marks expressions that characterize the way that the Agent behaves.  ' They stood together and posed for the pass, Alleyne relaxed and smiling , a tall , angular man who carried  himself with natural elegance .'


Input:
LUs: беседовать > говорить
Example: Воспитатели должны время от времени беседовать с родителями.
FN Name: Chatting
FN Core FEs: Interlocutors > Interlocutor_1 > Interlocutor_2
FN Definition: A group of people (the Interlocutors or Interlocutor_1 and Interlocutor_2 together) have a conversation.  No person is construed as only a speaker or only an addressee. Rather, it is understood that both (or all) participants do some speaking and some listening--the process is understood to be symmetrical or reciprocal.  In this frame, the purpose of the conversation is generally social, rather than specifically to decide something or exchange information, or to quarrel (see Discussion and Quarreling).  'If you ain't got nothin' better to do, I 'd like to shoot the breeze with you for a couple.' 'We used to chat about everything.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The group of individuals involved in chatting. > The individual or individuals that form the more prominent (i.e. agentive) party of a conversation, as compared with Interlocutor_2. That is, Interlocutor_1 is generally encoded as the External Argument of verbs, and peripheral FEs that do not make reference to the event itself generally make reference to Interlocutor_1.  Thus a Purpose (or Means, Depictive, or Manner) is construed to be that of Interlocutor_1, not necessarily that of Interlocutor_2 or the group of Interlocutors as a whole.  'We chatted with the guards to distract them from the heist going on right behind them.' > The semantically (and grammatically) less prominent group of participants in a conversation.  It is generally encoded within a prepositional phrase (e.g. headed by with).    'I gossiped with the rest of the choir for a little while.'


Input:
LUs: беспокоиться > волноваться > злиться > плакать
Example: Она беспокоилась из-за болезни мужа .
FN Name: Emotion_active
FN Core FEs: Experiencer > Topic
FN Definition: This frame has similarities to Experiencer_subject, but here the verbs are more 'active' in meaning. (For example, they often occur in negative imperatives, e.g. "Don't worry!'').  They also differ from Experiencer_subject verbs in that they occur with Topic expressions and  can be used in the present progressive:  'Pat is still worrying about the exam.'  *Pat is fearing the exam. This frame can be thought of as a blend of a basic emotion frame with Cogitation.
FN Core FEs definitions: The FE Experiencer indicates the one who is actively expressing emotion over the Topic.  It usually occurs as the subject of the verb.  'Kim worried about the phone bill.' 'He worries a great deal about the house.' > The Experiencer's emotion generally is about something.  This is indicated with a Topic which usually occurs in a PP-Complement.  'Kim fretted over the exam.' 'He worries a great deal about the house.' 


Input:
LUs: бить > жечь > забить > мучить > пробить > расстроить
Example: Мастер часто бил учеников.
FN Name: Cause_harm
FN Core FEs: Agent > Victim > Body_part > Cause
FN Definition: The words in this frame describe situations in which an Agent or a Cause injures a Victim. The Body_part of the Victim which is most directly affected may also be mentioned in the place of the Victim.  In such cases, the Victim is often indicated as a genitive modifier of the Body_part, in which case the Victim FE is indicated on a second FE layer. '' 'Rod saw his father beating his mother.'  'In the end Wormtongue is fed up with being beaten so he cuts Saruman's throat to free himself.'  'A mother stabbed to death by her husband made a secret will stating that he must never be allowed to care for their son.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Agent is the person causing the Victim's injury.  'Jolosa, who broke a rival player 's jaw, was told to model his play on the England striker.' 'Someone bashed him on the back of the head with a heavy smooth object.' 'Claire McLaren, 16, was punched and kicked senseless by a thug.' > The Victim is the being or entity that is injured.  If the Victim is included in the phrase indicating Body_part, the Victim FE is tagged on a second FE layer (see 3rd example).  'Someone bashed him on the back of the head with a heavy smooth object.' 'The farmer tied him to the fence to stop him butting the sheep.' 'Jolosa, who broke a rival player 's jaw, was told to model his play on the England striker.' > The Body_part identifies the location on the body where the bodily injury takes place.  'Someone bashed him on the back of the head with a heavy smooth object.' 'Jolosa, who broke a rival player 's jaw , was told to model his play on the England striker.' > The Cause marks expressions that indicate some non-intentional, typically non-human, force that inflicts harm on the Victim  'A falling rock crushed my ankle.'


Input:
LUs: бить > разобрать
Example: Рабочие бьют камень  кувалдами.
FN Name: Cause_to_fragment
FN Core FEs: Agent > Whole_patient > Pieces > Cause
FN Definition: An Agent suddenly and often violently separates the Whole_patient into two or more smaller Pieces, resulting in the Whole_patient no longer existing as such.  Several lexical items are marked with the semantic type Negative, which indicates that the fragmentation is necessarily judged as injurious to the original Whole_patient.  Compare this frame with Damaging, Render_non-functional, and Removing.  'He ripped up the letter faster than you can say "Jack Robbins". INI' 'Don't go in there or you 'll be torn to bits! CNI' 'She shattered the vase with a casual backhand blow to make it look like there had been a struggle. INI' 'Tear into 6" strips, each about one inch wide, then bake at 400. CNI CNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The conscious entity, generally a person, that performs the intentional action that results in the Whole_patient being broken into Pieces. 'I and I alone can shatter the gem and break the curse.' > The entity which is destroyed by the Agent and that ends up broken into Pieces. 'Shattering someone's confidence is a little different than shattering a dish.' > The fragments of the Whole_patient that result from the Agent's action. 'I smashed the toy boat to flinders.' > An event which leads to the fragmentation of the Whole_patient.


Input:
LUs: бить
Example: Солдаты били прикладами в ворота.
FN Name: Cause_impact
FN Core FEs: Impactee > Impactor > Impactors > Agent > Cause
FN Definition: An Agent causes an Impactor to make sudden, forcible contact with an Impactee, or manipulates two (or more) Impactors so that they make mutual forcible contact.    'He slammed his fist down on the table and bellowed something unintelligible.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Impactee is the entity which is hit by the Impactor.  'What I want to know is who smacked my head with a 10-ton truck?' 'He slammed the lid down on the top of the jar so hard that it broke.' > The Impactor is the entity that hits the Impactee because of the Agent's efforts.  'Those hoodlums strike my car with water balloons every day!' 'Well, then he just ran the car right into the wall.' > The Impactors are the multiple entities that collide.  'Mr. Addams likes to collide toy trains at high speed.' > The Agent  causes an impact.  'One juggler was hitting the ceiling with every other ball.' > The Cause marks expressions that indicate some non-intentional,  typically non-human, force that causes an Impactor to make sudden,  forcible contact with an Impactee.  'A violent explosionrattled the windows.'  


Input:
LUs: бить
Example: Нападающий бьет штрафной.
FN Name: Hit_target
FN Core FEs: Target > Agent
FN Definition: An Agent causes the ballistic motion of a projectile and its subsequent impact on a Target.  'It looks like he hit the bull's-eye with his first arrow!'  'If he shot her, he is fully culpable whether he meant to or not.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The entity which is hit by a Projectile directed by the Agent. > The individual that directs the Projectile such that it impacts the Target.


Input:
LUs: бить > смотреть
Example: Винтовка бьет на полтора километра.
FN Name: Hit_or_miss
FN Core FEs: Agent > Instrument > Target_location
FN Definition: An Agent succeeds or fails to interact perceptually or physically with the Target or Target_location.  The Instrument which is used to interact with the Target may stand in metonymically for the Agent.  'At first he shot very wide of his target .' 'Because I programmed the scope wrong , I kept missing Jupiter .' 'She scored two hits on the deer 's left side .'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual who tries to interact with the Target. > The object manipulated by the Agent in order to interact with the Target. > The location that the Agent is attempting to access using the Instrument. 


Input:
LUs: бомбардировать
Example: Форт бомбардировали с моря .
FN Name: Attack
FN Core FEs: Victim > Assailant
FN Definition: An Assailant physically attacks a Victim (which is usually but not always sentient), causing or intending to cause the Victim physical damage.   A Weapon used by the Assailant may also be mentioned, in addition to the usual Place, Time, Purpose, Explanation, etc.  Sometimes a location is used metonymically to stand for the Assailant or the Victim, and in such cases the Place FE will be annotated on a second FE layer.  'As soon as he stepped out of the bar he was set upon by four men in ski-masks.' 'Is he invading Iraq just to cover other shortcomings?' 'Then Jon-O's forces ambushed them on the left flank from a line of low hills.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE is the being or entity that is injured by the Assailant's attack. 'The mysterious fighter attacked the guardsmen with a sabre.' > The person (or other self-directed entity) that is attempting physical harm to the Victim. 'The mysterious fighter attacked the guardsmen with a sabre.'


Input:
LUs: бояться
Example: Она боялась за сына .
FN Name: Fear
FN Core FEs: Experiencer > Topic > Stimulus > Expressor > State
FN Definition: An Experiencer, Expressor, or State can be described as characterized as having an emotion of fear concerning a particular Topic or as evoked by a Stimulus.  'I was scared by a bump in the night.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Experiencer is the person or sentient entity that experiences or feels the emotions.    > The Topic is the general area in which the emotion occurs.  It indicates a range of possible Stimulus.    > The Stimulus is the person, event, or state of affairs that evokes the emotional response in the Experiencer.    > The body part, gesture, or other expression of the Experiencer that reflects his or her emotional state.  They describe a presentation of the experience or emotion denoted by the adjective or noun.     > The State is the abstract noun that describes a more lasting experience by the Experiencer.   


Input:
LUs: занять
Example: Ничто ее не занимает.
FN Name: Cause_to_experience
FN Core FEs: Agent > Experiencer
FN Definition: An Agent intentionally seeks to bring about an internal mental or emotional state in the Experiencer.  This frame in closely related to  Experiencer_obj.  ' Samantha terrorized the children into screaming. '
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is an External Argument of the target word and purposefully arouses an emotional state.   > The Experiencer is the person the Agent causes to have a particular emotional state.


Input:
LUs: захватить
Example: Противник захватил промышленные районы страны .
FN Name: Conquering
FN Core FEs: Conqueror > Theme
FN Definition: This frame describes a Theme losing its autonomy and perhaps sustaining material damage as the result of a successful invasion on the behalf of a Conqueror.  'The Spaniards conquered the Incas with both the Cross and the arquebus'  'He said that the aim had been the takeover of the Soviet government by "advocates of swift privatization"'  'The Romans fell to the Goths in 410 AD.'  'Bright Star campaign forces captured the garrison town of Kajo Kaji'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Conqueror is the entity that overtakes the Theme.  'The Achaemenid monarch Cambyses conquered Egypt in the year 525 BC' > The Theme is the land, government, and its people that is seized by the Conqueror.  'Britain had an opportunity to conquer Europe.'


Input:
LUs: браться > гладить > держать > захватить
Example: Он взялся за поручень свободной рукой.
FN Name: Manipulation
FN Core FEs: Agent > Entity > Bodypart_of_agent
FN Definition: The words in this frame describe the manipulation of an Entity by an Agent.  Generally, this implies that the Entity is not deeply or permanently physically affected, nor is it overall moved from one place to another.  'Ian squeezed Mara's hand.' ''  A number of lexemes listed in this frame also occur in the Cause_motion frame (for example, push, yank).  Only the non-motion uses of these words belong in this frame, e.g., combinations such as push at, push on, yank at.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent manipulates an object. Agent typically refers to animate beings, but is also extended to mechanical and other inanimate objects.  Agent is most frequently expressed as the external argument of verbs:   'A robot arm grasps the box on the conveyor belt and seals it.' > The Entity being manipulated often occurs as the direct object of verbs:   'Squeeze the ball as many times as you can.' 'Pat squeezed Jo's hand.' > The part of the Agent's body being used to manipulate the Entity may also be expressed. While the default is for an Agent to use his/her hands, other body parts may be specified. This frame element usually occurs as a PP-complement.  'Kim grasped the needle between finger and thumb.'


Input:
LUs: браться > открыть
Example: Пора браться за учение .
FN Name: Activity_start
FN Core FEs: Activity > Agent
FN Definition: An Agent initiates the beginning of an ongoing Activity in which he will be continuously involved. '' 'At the same time, city-states began to grow in influence on the southern Greek mainland.'  'Naturally, I started crying to get out of work.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE identifies the Activity that an Agent starts. > This FE identifies the being that starts the intentional Activity.


Input:
LUs: браться > грозить
Example: Не берусь судить .
FN Name: Commitment
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Addressee > Message > Topic > Medium
FN Definition: A Speaker makes a commitment to an Addressee to carry out some future action.  This may be an action desirable (as with promise) or not desirable (as with threaten) to the Addressee. Some of the words in this frame allow an Addressee to be expressed. 'You promised me you'd come to my graduation.' Other words cannot normally occur with an Addressee. 'Kim undertook to finish the project by June.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Speaker is the person who commits him/herself to do something.  Speaker is usually the External Argument of predicative uses of the target or the Genitive modifier of a noun: Jo made a promise to me. Jo promised me she would cook dinner. Jo's promise to cook dinner came to nothing.  > The Speaker's commitment can be made to an Addressee.  With those words which allow this frame element to be expressed, Addressee usually occurs as a PP Complement headed by to or the (Indirect) Object of verbs: Kim made a promise to me. Kim promised me that everything would be okay.  > An expression of the commitment made by the Speaker expresses the frame element Message.  Message is expressed as a finite or non-finite clausal Complement or an NP Object: I swore that I would never make the same mistake again. The owner finally consented to sell the business. They threatened revenge.  > Topic expressions are not very frequent in this frame. They can occur with noun targets. Jo made endless promises about working harder at school.  > As with other frames in the Communication domain, the Medium of communication may be expressed. Medium is the physical entity or channel used to transmit the Message. Bob threatened the workers in Spanish. 


Input:
LUs: бриться
Example: Я только недавно стал бриться электробритвой.
FN Name: Grooming
FN Core FEs: Agent > Patient > Body_part
FN Definition: In this frame, an Agent engages in personal body care by grooming either a Patient or a Body_part.  An Instrument can be used in this process as well as a Medium.  'She washed the baby.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The agent is the person who does the grooming.   'She washed the baby' > The patient is the person who gets washed. 'She washed the baby.' > This is the region of the body that gets groomed. 'She scrubbed her hands with soap.'


Input:
LUs: бунтовать
Example: Матросы бунтовали против командиров.
FN Name: Rebellion
FN Core FEs: Rebel > Current_leadership > Current_order
FN Definition: An individual or group, the Rebel, rejects the authority of the Current_leadership, and attempts to bring them out of power. The rebellion may, but need not be violent. Rather than expressing rebellion against the Current_leadership, the lexical units in this frame may appear with expressions describing the Current_order, the system of rule which the Rebels reject.  'In 1641 there was a Catholic rebellion against the Protestants of Ulster, and English authority over the island was shaken.'  'How do they justify their armed insurgency?'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual or group within a society that attempts to overturn the Current_leadership, and possibly also the Current_order of governance.  'In 1641 there was a Catholic rebellion against the Protestants of Ulster, and English authority over the island was shaken.'  'In the summer he crushed Geoffrey's rebellion and compelled him to renounce his claim.' > The people currently in power, whom the Rebels attempt to overthrow.  'It was the first time that a man of such high rank had been put to death for rebellion against the king.' > The currently-existing system of authority or government.  'At the time they were in rebellion against the Catholic government.'


Input:
LUs: вдохновлять > вдохновляться > воздействовать
Example: Любовь вдохновила его на подвиг.
FN Name: Subjective_influence
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Situation > Entity > Action > Behavior > Product > Agent
FN Definition: An Agent, Situation or Entity has an influence on a Cognizer. The influence may be general; or it may be manifested in the Cognizer's engaging in an Action as a consequence of the influence; or the Cognizer may be influenced in how they carry out a Behavior that they are engaged in already. Alternatively, a Product may be specified whose production or design was influenced by the Cognizer's experience of the  Situation or Entity. ''  The  mediation of the Cognizer's psyche distinguishes this frame from the Objective_influence frame, where dependent events occur automatically given the appropriate kind of influencing force. In this frame, by contrast, a Cognizer may perceive an influence yet not respond to it in any way.  ' These works had a profound effect and influenced her in the creation of a successful series capturing this sun-drenched region.' 'I'm sure if I asked Mattel what inspired this car I would be told it's an original design, and not supposed to represent any actual car.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who is influenced by the Situation or Entity.   'George Gilder would run with this idea later in writing the New Testament of supply-side economics that influenced Reagan. '   > A state of affairs--- which can be an event, state or conditions---that has an influence on the Cognizer.   'The balmy temperatures inspired me to write a poem on the advent of spring.' 'Hecker said that although the sheer age of the building inspired him to preserve its heritage aspects he also designed its interiors around the ·clean and fresh· mood of Queensland.' > A person or thing that has an influence on the Cognizer.  'The painting inspired me to take a risk and use the intense green for the sky.'  > An Action that the Cognizer decides to carry out as a consequence of the influence of a Situation or Entity.   'What factors influenced Nixon to issue the doctrine?'  > A Behavior that the Cognizer is engaged in independently but whose execution is subsequently influenced by the Situation or Entity.  'Attention will also be paid to St. Paul , what influenced him in his thinking and what he wrote in his letters about sex, sexuality, men and women' > An entity that stands metonymically for the actions and considerations that produced it.  'Does anyone know what inspired this song? ' > The Agent acts to influence a Cognizer.


Input:
LUs: велеть > заказать > звать > наказать > приказать > просить
Example: Бригадир велел, чтобы к его приходу все было сделано.
FN Name: Request
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Addressee > Message > Medium
FN Definition: In this frame a Speaker asks an Addressee for something, or to carry out some action.  'The customer demanded a refund.' 'I begged my parents to let me stay up late.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Speaker, as in other communication frames, is generally an External Argument.   'The judge ordered the plaintiff to return the money.' > In this frame the Addressee can either occur as an NP Object (usually with a following complement clause) or as a PP Complement of verbs or nouns.  'The child implored her parents to let her stay up late.' 'I pleaded with the bus driver to let me on without paying.' 'I made an appeal to the passers-by to help me.' > The Message is the content of the request that can be expressed as a quote, in a finite or non-finite clausal Complement, an NP Object or PP Complement. '"I'd like an extension," begged Pat.' 'The directors requested that Pat resign.' 'Pat begged them to reconsider.' 'The students requested an extension of the deadline.' 'The offender begged for clemency.' > The Medium is the physical entity or channel used to transmit the Message. The Medium is frequently expressed as a PP Complement headed by on or in.  'The parents of the missing child made an appeal on television.' 'The parents of the missing child made an appeal in the papers.'


Input:
LUs: вешать > вынести > завалить > завернуть > задать > отложить > подобрать > расположиться
Example: Демонстранты вешают  на грудь и на спину плакаты.
FN Name: Placing
FN Core FEs: Agent > Theme > Goal > Cause
FN Definition: Generally without overall (translational) motion,  an Agent places a Theme at a location, the Goal, which is profiled.  In this frame, the Theme is under the control of the Agent/Cause at the time of its arrival at the Goal.  'David placed his briefcase on the floor.'  This frame differs from Filling in that it focuses on the Theme rather than the effect on the Goal entity.  It differs from Removing in focusing on the Goal rather than the Source of motion for the Theme.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is the person (or other force) that causes the Theme to move.  'The waiter placed the food on the table.' > The Theme is the object that changes location during the Placing.  'The waiter placed the food on the table.' > The FE Goal is the location where the Theme ends up. This FE is profiled by words in this frame.   'The waiter placed the food on the table.'  > 'Grass , which is sown with clover , provides rich pasture for cattle in summer and the clover is another plant which puts nitrogen into the soil .'


Input:
LUs: вздыхать > дуть
Example: Старушка ходила по дому, вздыхала.
FN Name: Breathing
FN Core FEs: Agent > Air
FN Definition: An Agent causes Air to move in a direction, usually specifying either in or out of the body.  'Lee breathed the hot desert air.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent's breathing causes the motion of the Air.  Agent is generally the External Argument. 'Lee breathed the hot desert air.' > Air is the substance that the Agent causes to move. 'Lee breathed the hot desert air.'


Input:
LUs: видеть > испытать > охватить > прорезаться > прятаться > разглядеть
Example: Капитан видит человека за бортом .
FN Name: Perception_experience
FN Core FEs: Perceiver_passive > Phenomenon > Body_part
FN Definition: This frame contains perception words whose Perceivers have perceptual experiences that they do not necessarily intend to. For this reason we call the Perceiver role Perceiver_passive. Comparing the Perception_experience frame to the Perception_active frame, we note that for some modalities there are different lexical items in each frame.  For instance, whereas Perception_experience has see, Perception_active has look at. For other sense modalities, we find the same lexical items in both frames.  To illustrate, consider the verb smell where I smell something rotten exemplifies its Perception_experience use and Smell this to see if it's fresh exemplifies its Perception_active sense. This frame also includes words which are not specific to any sense modality, including detect, perceive, perception, sense.  '' 'Abashed, realising that he had overheard her conversation with Victoria, Sheeley didn't try to make excuses.'  'She smelled the wine on Paul's breath, and bade him to sit down.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE is the being who has a perceptual experience, not necessarily on purpose. It is typically expressed as an External Argument.  'The waiter smelled something foul in the kitchen.' > This FE is the entity or phenomenon that the perceiver experiences with his or her senses. It is typically expressed as Object with verbs.  'The waiter smelled something foul in the kitchen.'  'I saw the baker prepare his special peanut butter pie'. > The Body_part is the location on the Perceiver_passive's body where the perceptual experience  takes place.  It is typically expressed in a PP. 'Marlow felt something cold and hard against the back of his neck.' This Frame Element occurs less frequently than others, because many target words imply that a particular part of the body is involved (e.g. smelling must be done with the nose). However, the verb feel does take this Frame Element, because touch is not localized on the body the same way other modalities are.  Body_part may be expressed in other modalities when it adds specificity to what is implied by the target word in question. 'I heard a ringing in my right ear. '


Input:
LUs: виднеться > развернуться
Example: Волосы виднеются из-под пилотки.
FN Name: Becoming_visible
FN Core FEs: Entity
FN Definition: An Entity that is previously not visible to a Perceiver becomes visible.  'The armada appeared on the horizon at sunset.'  'The captain ordered his men to dig at the X and the corner of a chest appeared.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The thing that the Perceiver is able to see or recognize.


Input:
LUs: включаться > включить > включиться > выключить
Example: -.
FN Name: Change_operational_state
FN Core FEs: Device > Agent > Cause
FN Definition: A Device or machine is put in (or out of) service either by a volitional Agent or by a Cause event or force acting on the Device. The Time when and the Place where the Device is put in or out of use may be specified, as may be the Purpose of the human Agent in changing the operational state of the Device.  'The laborer realized that he activated the machine but did not know how to stop it.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Device or machine that is in or out of operation.  'The night lights were turned on in the secondary school.' > The Agent is the person who changes the operational state of the Device.   'Instantly Sue activated the commlink on the wall.' > Cause identifies the non-agentive force that causes the Device to begin to operate.  'He was in his stocking feet while standing in the bayou that formed when the wind turned the shower on in that one upstairs bathroom.'


Input:
LUs: включаться > включить > исключить
Example: -.
FN Name: Inclusion
FN Core FEs: Total > Part
FN Definition: A Total has a Part, either  as a member of an aggregate or as  a constituent part of a simple entity.  'His collection included two El Grecos.'
FN Core FEs definitions: A complex entity, either an aggregate or a unit, of which a Part,  a constituent or a component, is specified.   'His collection included two El Grecos' > A component or constituent that is specified to form part of the Total.  'The larger album includes designs for his house at Whitehall.'


Input:
LUs: включаться > включиться
Example: Санитарные службы готовы включиться.
FN Name: Participation
FN Core FEs: Participants > Participant_1 > Participant_2 > Event > Institution
FN Definition: An Event with multiple Participants takes place. It can be presented either symmetrically with Participants or asymmetrically, giving Participant_1 greater prominence over Participant_2. If the Event is engaged in intentionally, then there is typically a shared Purpose between the Participants. It is, however, possible that an expressed Purpose only applies to Participant_1.   'MATAC looks forward to your participation in helping promote telework in the Mid-Atlantic region.'  ' FOAP provides participants with comprehensive clerical skills. DNI' ' FOAP provides participants with comprehensive clerical skills. '   'Our eight-year-old son was recently  peripherally involved in an incident which resulted in him being threatened with the strap.'  'A New York press agent must scramble when his major client becomes embroiled in a huge scandal.'  'In his time as a first-team all-league player, Rife was in on 86 solo tackles.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individuals or entities that have been participants in an Event.  'Thereafter, everybody participated in the 17 May parade ending in the Nordic Club.'   > Participant_1 is the grammatically more prominent participant in an Event with multiple Participants.  'Last year, Bill participated in the Montana State University Earth Systems Science distance learning course in the Atmosphere Unit.' > A grammatically less prominent participant of an Event with multiple Participants.  'The Second Amended Complaint alleges that Andrew S. Pitt ("Pitt"), Conectisys Corporation ("Conectisys" or the "Company"), and BM Capital Corp. participated with Zaman and Smith Benton in a fraudulent and manipulative trading scheme.' > An Event with multiple Participants, who may or may not be involved intentionally.  'Some who participated in D-Day are finally ready to talk about it' > A group, location, or institution conventionally associated with an Event.  'Several of the countries were unable to participate in the market .'


Input:
LUs: вкладываться > возвратить > возвращать > задать > отдать > посвятить > предоставить > протянуть
Example: Он не очень вкладывался в это дело.
FN Name: Giving
FN Core FEs: Donor > Recipient > Theme
FN Definition: A Donor transfers a Theme from a Donor to a Recipient.  This frame includes only actions that are initiated by the Donor (the one that starts out owning the Theme).  Sentences (even metaphorical ones) must meet the following entailments: the  Donor first has possession of the Theme.  Following the transfer the Donor no longer has the Theme and the Recipient does. 'Barney gave the beer to Moe.' '$300 was endowed to the university to build a new performing arts building.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person that begins in possession of the Theme and causes it to be in the possession of the Recipient . > The entity that ends up in possession of the Theme. > The object that changes ownership.


Input:
LUs: вмещать > держать
Example: Гавань вмещает целый флот.
FN Name: Containing
FN Core FEs: Container > Contents
FN Definition: In this frame a Container holds within its physical boundaries the Contents.  'The box holds three hundred pictures.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Container is the physical object which holds within its boundaries the Contents  'The box holds three hundred pictures.' > The Contents is the substance or objects contained within the physical bounds of the Container. 'The box holds three hundred pictures.'


Input:
LUs: возглавлять > господствовать
Example: Петр возглавлял комитет  .
FN Name: Leadership
FN Core FEs: Leader > Role > Governed > Activity
FN Definition: These are words referring to control by a Leader over a particular entity  or group (the Governed) or an Activity. The frame contains both nouns referring to a title or position (e.g. director, king, president), and verbs describing the action of leadership (e.g. rule, reign). With verbs, it is possible to mention the Role played by the Leader (often a name of a leading position, e.g., king)  'Sebek em hat was a Leader of Priests. ca. 1780 BC' 'In 1789 Fletcher Christian led the mutiny on HMS Bounty' 'Louis XIV ruled over his people as king for the longest period of any European monarch.' Compare to: Appellations.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Leader is the one who has the role of leading.  With verbs, and with predicate nominals linking an individual to a Role, the Leader is usually the External Argument:  'King Hussein ruled Jordan.'  'Hussein was King of Jordan.'  With leadership nouns, the frame element Leader is most frequently instantiated by the target itself. 'The queen announced her upcoming visit to Belgium.'  > The role played by the Leader in a given situation, often an official title; incorporated in most noun LUsin this frame. When expressed separately from the target, Role usually occurs in a PP Complement headed by as.  'Hussein reigned as King of Jordan' > The entity whose actions or beliefs the Leader directs in the context of a joint activity or movement.  This entity can be a political body, a person, or a group of people.  'Cyprus Turks turn against their leader' 'Naoto Kan is the new leader of the Democratic Party of Japan.' 'King Hussein ruled Jordan.' > The Leader directs the Activity.  'The captain's cousin led the mutiny.' 'John Cage is one of the leaders of the minimalist music movement.'


Input:
LUs: возникнуть > выразиться > прорезаться > стать
Example: В тишине возник странный звук.
FN Name: Coming_to_be
FN Core FEs: Entity
FN Definition: An Entity comes into existence at a particular Place and Time which may take a certain Duration_of_endstate, have a Cause, or be formed from Components.  'Problems may arise whenever an S1 sophont enters the game.' 'Mountains sometimes form in as little as a million years.' 'A new paradigm emerged from the discussion of nuclear weapons.' 'New Plants form from the cut veins in two weeks.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Concrete or abstract entity that did not exist before the Time of the event.


Input:
LUs: воспользоваться
Example: Я воспользовался им, чтобы облегчить себе жизнь.
FN Name: Using
FN Core FEs: Agent > Purpose > Instrument
FN Definition: An Agent manipulates an Instrument in order to achieve a Purpose.  'For cold conditions, we recommend that you use a heat gun or a hair dryer to make the adhesive work better. '
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent uses the Instrument to achieve their Purpose. > This FE identifies the purpose for which an Agent uses the Instrument. > An entity directed by the Agent that serves to bring about the Purpose of the Agent.  'For cold conditions, we recommend using a heat gun or a hair dryer to make the adhesive work better. '


Input:
LUs: врать > лгать > обмануть
Example: Зачем ты мне соврал? Не надо врать родителям.
FN Name: Prevarication
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Addressee > Topic
FN Definition: A Speaker communicates about a Topic in such a way as to mislead an Addressee, either by telling outright lies or by presenting a message in a misleading form.  'I lied to you about your Christmas present.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who uses language in the written or spoken modality to convey a deceptive Message to the Addressee. 'Politicians do nothing but tell lies about money.' > The person that receives a Message from the Speaker.  'You're kidding me!' 'Satan lies to everyone, including himself.' > Topic is the entity to which the proposition or propositions  relate, that they are about.  'You deceived me about the location of the diamonds.'


Input:
LUs: вспомнить
Example: Я вспомнил о важном деле .
FN Name: Memory
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Content > Topic
FN Definition: This frame is concerned with Cognizers remembering and forgetting mental Content.  'John forgot everything about his uncle.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Cognizer is the person whose mental Content is at issue. > The Content is the mental content that a Cognizer retains or forgets.  'Each student must be able to recall the whole paragraph  .' > The Topic is the subject the Cognizer mental Content is about.  'John  forgot everything about his uncle.'


Input:
LUs: вспыхнуть > жечь
Example: Головни вспыхивают от ветра.
FN Name: Fire_burning
FN Core FEs: Fire > Fuel
FN Definition: A Fire burns Fuel, resulting in damage and possibly complete destruction of the Fuel.  'A fire that started on Saturday afternoon, the High Glade Fire - located on the Mendocino National Forest's Upper Lake Ranger District - continued to burn actively on Sunday.'  'Since the fire is near a road and also on part of the Appalachian Trail, the Forest Service said a main concern is the safety of the public.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The total material currently involved in combustion, including both the parts of the Fuel currently undergoing chemical alteration and the partially ionized gas that results from this process. > The entity that is undergoing rapid chemical alteration leading to damage or destruction.


Input:
LUs: встретить
Example: Иванов встретил за границей  своего московского друга.
FN Name: Encounter
FN Core FEs: Group > Individuals > Party_1 > Party_2
FN Definition: This frame describes Individuals who unintentionally come together to form a Group.  Alternatively, a grammatically more prominent Party_1 meets by chance a Party_2, expressed as an oblique phrase.  '' 'I encountered Jim on my way to class.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Group describes the resulting formation of the Individuals. > The Individuals are self-movers who unintentionally meet up. > Party_1 is the grammatically more prominent participant in the encountering event.  It can refer to either a single individual or a larger party separate from Party_2 previous to the by chance meeting. > A grammatically less prominent participant in the encountering event.  It can refer to either a single individual or a larger party separate from Party_1 previous to the by chance meeting.


Input:
LUs: встретить
Example: Бойцы встретили неприятеля огнем .
FN Name: Meet_with_response
FN Core FEs: Trigger > Response
FN Definition: A Trigger elicits a Response.  The Response may either be some kind of action meant to address the Trigger event or an expressed judgment of the Trigger event. 'Our proposal met with harsh criticism.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The event that elicits a Response. > The means action or judgement in response to the Trigger.


Input:
LUs: встретить > выяснить > обнаружить > открыть > оценить > признать > разобрать > рубить
Example: Он встретил в книге незнакомые стихи.
FN Name: Becoming_aware
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Phenomenon > Means > Topic > Instrument
FN Definition: Words in this frame have to do with a Cognizer adding some Phenomenon to their model of the world. They are similar to Coming-to-believe words, except the latter generally involve reasoning from Evidence.  '' The words in this frame take direct objects that denote entities in the world, and indicate awareness of those entities, without necessarily giving any information about the content of the Cognizer's belief or knowledge. These words also resemble perception words, since creatures often become aware of things by perceiving them.  'Later that night, they found the barely-alive victim inside the Red Hall estate flat.'  'Almost immediately, the police discovered the wrought-iron crypt gate swinging open.'  'In the bag on the tableI could vaguelydiscern two bottles of wine and several cartons of cakes and other goodies.'  'People passing through recognize it from afar, by the clouds of coal dust darkening the air.'   General Grammatical Observations: Passive forms of the verbs in this frame can occur with extraposed clauses expressing Phenomenon: 'That year it was discovered that consumers preferred the older model.' 'It is not always recognized how much work goes into a dinner party.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Cognizer is the person who becomes aware of a Phenomenon. It is normally expressed as an External Argument.  'Pat discovered a great little restaurant in Soho.'  > Thm Phenomenon is the entity or situation in the world of which a Cognizer becomes aware. It is normally expressed as an Object:  'Pat discovered a great little restaurant in Soho.' > This FE identifes the Means by which the Cognizer becomes aware of the Phenomenon.  'By opening the book to page 10, you will find the Van Eerdens' number.' > Topic indicates the general field within which the Phenomenon is found.  'Scientists attempt to make discoveries about the laws of nature.' > The Cognizer uses an Instrument to (enable themselves to) become aware of the Phenomenon.  In some cases, the Instrument may appear in subject position.  'Olson says the deputy came out to the farm and detected a radioactive substance with his Geiger counter.'


Input:
LUs: бить > выделиться
Example: Из коллектива выделилось несколько способных руководителей.
FN Name: Emitting
FN Core FEs: Source_emitter > Emission
FN Definition: In this frame a Source_emitter discharges its Emission along a Path or to a Goal.  ' (1) The factory exudes toxic fumes from three large chimneys.'  The Sub-source is only present when the actual Source_emitter is also given or is present in a possessive.  ' (2) Light is emitted  from the tower . '  ' (3) Noxious odors are emitted from his feet . '  In (3) we would tag 'his' as Source_emitter on a second layer because the inalienable possession on the Sub-source indicates the Source_emitter
FN Core FEs definitions: The Source_emitter is the item  from which the Emission are discharged. > The Emissions are discharged out of the Source_emitter .


Input:
LUs: выделиться > выделяться
Example: Средства выделяются на производство самолётов.
FN Name: Prominence
FN Core FEs: Entity > Attribute
FN Definition: An Entity stands out perceptually in comparison to other members of its type.  'Pilot Mountain in NC is very prominent.'  'First, from the Saturday images, the most prominent feature is a sharp spike emerging from the tailward side of the nucleus.'  'I was left with a deep and conspicuous scar (about 10cm long) which felt uncomfortably tight and itchy.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Entity for which the saliency Attribute is appropriate and under consideration.  ' If you are asked to search for the plus sign with red-vertical and green-horizontal elements, all the red and green plus signs may seem to become salient.'   > The feature of the Entity which is under discussion, namely perceptual salience.  'The diagram, (a frequency distribution chart) shows a prominently conspicuous region of stars that extend from the extremely bright and hot stars to the faint and cool variety. '


Input:
LUs: вынести
Example: Рабочие вынесли из зала  старый рояль.
FN Name: Bringing
FN Core FEs: Agent > Goal > Source > Path > Theme > Area > Carrier
FN Definition: This frame concerns the movement of a Theme and an Agent and/or Carrier.   The Agent, a person or other sentient entity, controls the shared Path by moving the Theme during the motion. In other words, the Agent has overall motion in directing the motion of the Theme.  The Carrier may be a separate entity, or it may be the Agent's body. The Constant_location may be a subregion of the Agent's body or (a subregion of) a vehicle that the Agent uses.  'Karl carried the books across campus to the library on his head.' 'Karl carried the books across campus to the library in his truck.' 'Karl carried the books across campus to the library by truck.' 'The truck carried the books across campus to the library in specially designed boxes.' The  FEs include Path, Goal, and Source.  Area is an area that contains the motion when the path is understood as irregular.   This frame emphasizes the path of movement as opposed to the FEs Source or Goal as in Filling or Placing.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is a sentient being who physically controls the movement of the Theme via the carrier, accompanying the Theme. 'Karl carried the books across the campus to the library.' > Goal identifies the endpoint of the path.    'Karl carried the books to the library.' > Source indicates the beginning of the path along which the Theme travels.    'Karl hauled the books from the library  to the office.'  > Path along which carrying occurs. 'Karl carried the books across the campus.'  > The objects being carried. 'Karl toted the books to the car.'  > Area is used for descriprion of a general area in which the carrying action takes place when the motion is understood to be irregular or not to consist of a single, linear path. > The Carrier provides support for the Theme.  Movement of the Carrier results in movement of the Theme. 'The boat ferried the troops across the river.'


Input:
LUs: вынести > говорить > говориться > заявить > изложить > отразить > отрезать > подсказать > признать > принять > рубить
Example: Суд вынес преступнику суровый приговор.
FN Name: Statement
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Message > Topic > Medium
FN Definition: This frame contains verbs and nouns that communicate the act of a Speaker to address a Message to some Addressee using language. Instead of (or in addition to) a Speaker, a Medium may also be mentioned. Likewise, a Topic may be stated instead of a Message. A number of the words can be used performatively, such as declare and insist.  'I now declare you members of this Society.'   'She said that I would be late .'  'The announcement about raffle winners came across the loudspeaker.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Speaker is the sentient entity that produces the Message (whether spoken or written).  It is normally expressed as the External Argument of predicative uses of the target	 word, or as the Genitive modifier of the noun. 'Evelyn spoke feelingly about what happened.' 'Evelyn made a persuasive statement.' 'Evelyn's statement was quite persuasive.' > The Message is the FE that identifies the content of what the Speaker is communicating to the Addressee.  It can be expressed as a clause or as a noun phrase. 'Evelyn said that she was not ready to leave.' 'Evelyn explained that she had seen him before.'  > The Topic is the subject matter to which the Message pertains. It is normally expressed as a PP Complement headed by "about", but in some cases it can appear as a direct object. 'Evelyn spoke candidly about her past.' 'The teacher mentioned the recent campus incidents.' > Medium is the physical entity or channel used by the Speaker to transmit the statement. 'Kim preached to me over the phone.' 


Input:
LUs: вынести > вынудить > делать > значить > принудить
Example: Наша страна хотела мира, но ее вынудили к войне.
FN Name: Causation
FN Core FEs: Affected > Actor
FN Definition: A Cause causes an Effect.  Alternatively, an Actor, a participant of a (implicit) Cause, may stand in for the Cause.  The entity Affected by the Causation may stand in for the overall Effect situation or event.   '' Those frames that inherit the Causation frame have as their background the idea that some event is responsible for the occurrence of another event (or state).  In the  inheriting frame, typically an FE like Agent or Causer is proposed in the place of the Actor, but in the daughter frames, as in this frame, the Actor is semantically dependent on the idea of a Cause (an event or state-of-affairs) that the Actor is a participant in.  Similarly, most inheriting frames profile only the Affected entity, not the full Effect situation which is often incorporated into the frame or the particular target.  So, for example, paint.v in the Filling frame entails the final situation of something (the Affected) being covered in paint (the Effect).  'He made me angry.'  'If such a small earthquake causes problems, just imagine a big one!'  'The strange mutations of the rumor mill in the end led to it being said that he was actually a woman.'  'You 've made it impossible to continue!'  'The ending left me feeling kinda empty.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Agents in a joint or reciprocal action (e.g. exchange) > An entity which participates in a Cause, perhaps volitionally and perhaps not.  'That one stone, apparently, caused the avalanche that engulfed square miles of forest.' 'Stephen Hawking caused an uproar when the results were published.'


Input:
LUs: вынуть > вырезать > освободить > очистить
Example: Мальчик вынул книги из портфеля .
FN Name: Removing
FN Core FEs: Agent > Theme > Source > Cause
FN Definition: An Agent causes a Theme to move away from a location, the Source.  The Sourceis profiled by the words in this frame, just as the Goal is profiled in the Placing frame.  'I saw that several men in dark suits had removed all of the evidence from the scene.' 'With your index finger prise the meat out of the shell' 'The torrential winds dislodged most of the roof tiles.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is the person (or other force) that causes the Theme to move.   'The waiter removed the dishes from the table.' > Theme is the object that changes location.   'The waiter removed the dishes from the table. ' > The Source is the initial location of the Theme, before it changes location.  'The waiter removed the dishes from the table.'  A few of the words in this frame participate in an alternation between a Theme object and a Source object.  'The waiter cleared the dishes from the table.' 'The waiter cleared the table of dishes.' 'The plumber drained the water from the sink.' 'The plumber drained  the sink of water.' 'The gardener emptied the soil from the bucket.' 'The gardener emptied the bucket of soil.' 'The army evacuated the people from the town.' 'The army evacuated the town.'  Sentences with a Source object belong in the frame Motion_Emptying. The frames Motion_Emptying and Motion_Removing differ in terms of which frame element, the Source or the Theme, is construed as being more highly affected.  > The non-Agentive cause of the removing event.  'The raging fire quickly emptied the square of all people.' 'Magnetic storms on the sun sometimes eject hot gas from beneath the surface.'


Input:
LUs: выписать > произнести
Example: Картины Рафаэля выписаны тонко и гладко.
FN Name: Spelling_and_pronouncing
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Sign > Judgment > Formal_realization > Part_of_form > Manner
FN Definition: A Speaker realizes a Sign, usually a linguistic one, in some Formal_realization. The Formal_realization may be described as correct or incorrect in a Judgment expression, or it may be partially indicated as a Part_of_form.  Manner may be used as a more general indication of the Formal_realization  'A person doesn't always pronounce a word the way they say  it in context'  'I can't spell. INI INI'  'Stephanopolous spells his name with a "ph".'  'On page 87465, you spelled the name of my dog incorrectly as "Checquers".'  'In German, the word for 'peace' is written "Friede" CNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The language user who produces a Sign in some modality.  'He insists on mispronouncing my name every time, the bastard!' > An abstract form-meaning pairing.  'My little nephew can't say prestidigitation' > An evaluation of whether the Formal_realization that the Speaker produced matches the standard or standard range.   'Finally, I would pay more attention to your "oppinion" if you spelled it correctly.' > The written string, gesture, or vocalized sound sequence that the Speaker produces.  'The old uncensored editions of the Talmud referred to Jesus as Yeshua censored versions spelled it as Yeshu ' > A constituent part of the Formal_realization.   'You spelled it with a "t".' > The way that the Speaker produces the Formal_realization.  'You spelled it the way it sounds.'


Input:
LUs: выработать > выработаться > делать > производить
Example: В стране вырабатывалось чуть более 3 млн т глинозема.
FN Name: Manufacturing
FN Core FEs: Producer > Product > Factory
FN Definition: A Producer produces a Product from a Resource for commercial purposes. ' They produced only half of the units after an injunction to follow the environmental policy.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person or company that produces the Product. 'General Electric manufactures electronic appliances.' > The Product is produced by the Producer. 'The company manufactured T-shirts.'  > Factory identifies the particular plant where the Product is manufactured. 'Those machines were manufactured in the Miami plant.' 


Input:
LUs: выработать
Example: Теперь он инвалид, много не выработает.
FN Name: Earnings_and_losses
FN Core FEs: Earner > Earnings
FN Definition: An Earner receives Earnings by providing Goods to a Buyer; providing the Goods also generally entails a cost, which may or may not be included in the consideration.  This frame emphasizes the effect on the Earner and often generalizes across an indefinite number of transactions with various parties.  Some of the LUs (e.g. earn.v) primarily refer to the to the Earnings without reference to cost, others to the amount the Earnings differ from the cost, emphasizing either a net loss (e.g. loss.n) or net gain (e.g. net.n).  'This reflects the 15 % jump in earnings over 1994 .' 'We made nearly two million on resales alone last year .' 'After a $ 1.5 million loss , the company is in no state to continue .'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Earner is involved in a transaction or set of transactions as the party that receives payment. > Earnings are the money given to the Earner in a transaction, generally in exchange for Goods.   


Input:
LUs: выработать > открыть > получиться > резать > родить > создать
Example: Она постепенно вырабатывает у себя стойкий характер .
FN Name: Creating
FN Core FEs: Created_entity > Creator
FN Definition: A Cause leads to the formation of a Created_entity.  'Dr. Frankenstein created a monster.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE identifies the entity that the Agent intentionally creates. 'They were assembling grenades for export.' > The Creator creates a created entity.


Input:
LUs: выразить > выразиться
Example: Позвольте выразить вам мою искреннюю признательность .
FN Name: Encoding
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Message > Manner > Medium
FN Definition: A person (Speaker) expresses a Message or mental content, broadly understood, in a particular Manner. The content may be emotional, as in 'Humans express  feelings through words' intellectual, as in 'Formulate the idea carefully'  or linguistic, as in 'Phrase your question as a comment.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Speaker, the person who encodes the Message, occurs as the External Argument of all the verbs: 'The teacher phrased the question carefully.'  > The Message is almost invariably expressed in an NP Object. (The only exceptions occur with the verb express, which is occasionally used with that-clause complements.) 'The Prime Minister expressed her sympathy for the victims.' BUT:'The Prime Minister expressed that she was worried about the victims.'  > For most of the words in this frame, some expression of Manner or Medium is obligatory. As in other frames, Manner expressions characterize the action (in this case, the speech act performed by the Speaker). However, a wide range of Manner expressions occurs in this frame, including the following types: 'True Manner: You should phrase it carefully.' 'Illocutionary Force: You should phrase it as a question.' 'Purpose: You should phrase it so that everyone understands. ' > Medium expresses the Medium of communication, such as the language used or the specific type of text in which the Message occurs:'Kim formulated her objections in French.' 'Kim formulated her objections in a letter.' 


Input:
LUs: выразить > высказать > высказаться
Example: Эта картина  выражает смятение художника.
FN Name: Expressing_publicly
FN Core FEs: Communicator > Content > Medium
FN Definition: A Communicator publically communicates some difficult-to-express Content which they (or a social group of which they are a member) have had for some time. The Content may not have been previously communicated due to inability or social stricture.  In cases where the individuals addressed are a smaller group than the public at large, a separate Addressee may be expressed.  'Those grievances can be aired during Board meetings. CNI'  'Saddam voiced his joy when he was told Spain's new government had left the US-led military coalition in Iraq.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Communicator is the person who expresses the Content (whether spoken or written).    'Reagan gave voice to the innate patriotism of the American people.' > The attitude or feeling that the Communicator had not previously expressed.  'Members aired their grievances and resented the way higher education was being dealt with.' > Medium is the observable action or product of the Communicator.   'I do not especially espouse the ideas articulated by Diana Plesa in her article.'


Input:
LUs: вырезать > отрезать > прорезаться > резать > рубить
Example: Мастер вырезает гравировальными инструментами тончайший орнамент.
FN Name: Cutting
FN Core FEs: Agent > Item > Pieces
FN Definition: An Agent cuts a Item into Pieces using an Instrument (which may or may not be expressed).  'At the ceremony, the CEO cut the red ribbon hanging across the main entrance into a glorious confetti.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is the person cutting the Item into Pieces. > The item which is being cut into Pieces. 'People back then had to chop firewood all day long.' > The Pieces are the parts of the original Item which are the result of the slicing.


Input:
LUs: бить > вырезать > забить > завалить > перебить > резать > рубить
Example: Фашисты вырезали  все мужское население.
FN Name: Killing
FN Core FEs: Killer > Victim > Cause > Means > Instrument
FN Definition: A Killer or Cause causes the death of the Victim. 'John drowned Martha.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person or sentient entity that causes the death of the Victim.</def-root > > The living entity that dies as a result of the killing. > An inanimate entity or process that causes the death of the Victim.  'The rockslide killed nearly half of the climbers.' > The method or action that the Killer or Cause performs resulting in the death of the Victim.  'The flood exterminated the rats by cutting off access to food.' > The device used by the Killer to bring about the death of the Victim. 'It's difficult to suicide with only a pocketknife.'


Input:
LUs: выслушать
Example: Выслушать проблемы строителей.
FN Name: Hearsay
FN Core FEs: Hearer > Message > Topic
FN Definition: The Hearer receives a Message or communication on a particular Topic. Words in this frame denote events of verbal communication, but express the Hearer rather than the Speaker as an External Argument.   'Teenage fans first heard about the tragedy on a popular radio show.'   'Teenage fans first heard the tragic news on a popular radio show'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE is the person who receives a Message. It is expressed as an Exteranal Argument in this frame: 'The students heard from Pat that class was canceled.' > The Message is the content that is communicated from one person to another. It is normally expressed as an NP Object or a finite clause Complement: 'The students heard the news.''The students heard from Pat that class was canceled.'  > Topic is the subject matter about which the Message is communicated. It is normally expressed as a PP-complement headed by about, with or without a quantificational noun: 'The students heard about class.''The students heard something about today's class.' The quantificational noun, if present, is treated as the Message. 


Input:
LUs: вытереть
Example: Женщина вытерла слезы .
FN Name: Cause_to_be_dry
FN Core FEs: Agent > Dryee > Cause
FN Definition: An Agent causes a Dryee (either a surface or an entire entity, inside and out) to become dry. This should not include examples like "drying tears" or "drying spills" as these are in the Removing frame.  'Michael dried the clothes.' 'Abby dried out the room with a dehumidifier.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is the person performing the intentional act causing the Dryee to become dry. ' Michael dehydrated the apples.' 'Abby dried out the room <fex name ="Instrument">with a dehumidifier.' > The Dryee is the entity which has the water removed from it. 'Michael dehydrated the apples.' 'Abby dried out the room with a dehumidifier.' > An animate or inanimate entity, a force, or event that produces the state of dryness. Volitionality is not a necessary characteristic of Causes.  '<fex name ="Cause">The wind dried <fex name = "Dryee">the porch.'


Input:
LUs: выпить > глотать > глотнуть > есть > завтракать > кушать > пить
Example: Утка глотала мелкую рыбешку.
FN Name: Ingestion
FN Core FEs: Ingestor > Ingestibles
FN Definition: An Ingestor consumes food or drink (Ingestibles), which entails putting the Ingestibles in the mouth for delivery to the digestive system.  This may include the use of an Instrument.  Sentences that describe the provision of food to others are NOT included in this frame.  'The wolves devoured the carcass completely.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Ingestor is the person eating or drinking. > The Ingestibles are the entities that are being consumed by the Ingestor. 


Input:
LUs: внимать > выслушать > глядеть > любоваться > наблюдать > смотреть
Example: Давай поглядим сверху .
FN Name: Perception_active
FN Core FEs: Perceiver_agentive > Phenomenon
FN Definition: This frame contains perception words whose perceivers intentionally direct their attention to some entity or phenomenon in order to have a perceptual experience.  For this reason we call the perceiver role in this frame Perceiver_agentive.    'She gazed upon him fondly.'  Comparing the Perception_active frame to the Perception_experience frame, we note that for some modalities there are different lexical items in each frame.  For instance, whereas Perception_active contains the verb phrase look at, Perception_experience contains see.   For other sense modalities, we find the same lexical item in both frames.  To illustrate, consider the verb smell.  This first sentence exemplifies the Perception_active use of the verb smell:'Smell this to see if it's fresh.CNI' This second sentence exemplifies its Perception_experience sense: 'I smell something rotten.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Perceiver_agentive performs some action in order to have a perceptual experience. It is expressed as an External Argument:  'The waiter smelled the milk to see if it was fresh.' > Phenomenon indicates the entity or phenomenon to which the Perceiver_agentive directs his or her attention in order to have a perceptual experience. Typically, it is expressed as an Object with verbs.  'The waiter smelled the milk to see if it was fresh.' 'The policeman watched him run out the door'


Input:
LUs: бить > греметь > гудеть > забить > звенеть > звучать > играть > извлечь > издать > кричать > кудахтать > петь > плакать > пропеть
Example: За окном гремит музыка .
FN Name: Make_noise
FN Core FEs: Sound_source > Sound > Noisy_event
FN Definition: A physical entity, construed as a point-Sound_source, emits a Sound.  This includes animals and people making noise with their vocal tracts. Sometimes the sound itself is referred to with a nominal expression, in which case it is called the Sound. Manner expressions may also be relevant in this frame, if they describe properties of the sound as such.  A path-schema can be overlaid on the simple noise-making scene, adding a Location_of_source and/or a Path.   This frame does not cover scenarios where objects create sound by coming into forceful contact with one another or rubbing against each other. Such scenarios are covered by the Impact and Friction frames. The current frame also does not cover cases where an animate Agent or a natural Force or Cause causes a single Source or several Sources (moving or rubbing against each other) to make noise. Such scenarios are  covered by the Cause_to_make_noise, Cause_impact and Cause_friction frames (the latter of which is not yet existent). Cases where the major emphasis of the portrayed scene is on the motion of a Theme, with sound emission only an accompaniment, are covered by the Motion_noise frame. Likewise, cases where the Sound itself is portrayed as moving through space are not covered in this frame but rather in Sound_movement. Finally, all nouns used to evoke Sounds have been placed in the Sounds frame. We have done this because these nouns do  not denote sound emission/production events but only the Sound itself (*The siren's blare occurred right on time).
FN Core FEs definitions: The frame element Sound_source is assigned to a constituent referring to a physical entity which emits a sound. Such an entity must have an appropriately complex internal structure such that it can create a sound. For example, a machine or some other thing with moving parts can create sound by itself.    'The wind howled.'    > The frame element Sound is incorporated in the meaning of the verbs of this frame. Otherwise, this FE is assigned to NPs which actually refer to a sound in the presence of the target. This typically occurs when the target is a verb used as a modifier in its -ing form, e.g.:   'The branches made a rattling sound.'  In this example, the frame element Sound is actually expressed by the word sound.   Sometimes, Sound just occurs as an NP argument of a tensed verb form. 'Heavy music thundered from leather-curtained basements' > An event in which one or more Sound_sources participate and which is accompanied by Sound.   'The conversations droned on'


Input:
LUs: греть
Example: Печь  плохо  греет.
FN Name: Cause_temperature_change
FN Core FEs: Agent > Item > Cause > Hot_Cold_source
FN Definition: In this frame, an Agent changes the temperature of an Item.  A Temperature_goal can specify the desired temperature.  A Temperature_change can also be indicated.  The Temperature_start indicates the initial temperature.  'Margaret Anne chilled the salad to 30 degrees.' 'Heat the water 30 degrees.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent performs the intentional act which changes the temperature of the Item.  'Ryan reheated the pasta in the microwave.' > The Item undergoes the temperature change.  'Ryan reheated the pasta in the microwave.' > An animate or inanimate entity, a force, or event that changes the temperature. Volitionality is not a necessary characteristic of Causes.  'The sun warmed the house.' > The Hot_Cold_source is the source of the heat or coolness.  'We chilled the drinks on ice.'


Input:
LUs: делать > заниматься > исполнить > отменить > оторваться > предать > приветствовать > производить > проститься > протянуть
Example: Что вы сейчас делаете? Все, что ему поручали, он делал очень охотно.
FN Name: Intentionally_act
FN Core FEs: Agent
FN Definition: This is an abstract frame for acts performed by sentient beings. It exists mostly for FE inheritance.  'I carried out the deed easily .'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent performs the intentional act.  'We have not yet acted .'


Input:
LUs: делать > определить
Example: Шло собрание, председатель делал доклад.
FN Name: Coming_to_believe
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Evidence > Content > Topic > Means > Medium
FN Definition: A person (the Cognizer) comes to believe something (the Content), sometimes after a process of reasoning. This change in belief is usually initiated by a person or piece of Evidence. Occasionally words in this domain are accompanied by phrases expressing Topic, i.e. that which the mental Content is about.   'Based on the most recent census I have concluded that most Americans sleep too much.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Cognizer is the person who comes to believe something.   'Sue realized that Bob was lost.' > Words in this frame may occur with a PP headed by from which expresses the Evidence on which knowledge or belief is based:   'I have learned from experience that poison oak can be painful.' > With a target verb, the Content is usually expressed as a finite clausal Complement or an Object NP, and may sometimes be expressed by a PP:  'The President learned that the reporters were hungry.'  'The children determined the answer.' > Some verbs in this frame may occur with postverbal Topic expressions: They found out about us! More generally verbs in this frame may occur with quantificational nouns followed by Topic expressions:   'The jury learned something terrible about the suspect.' > An act performed by the Cognizer which enables them to figure something out. 'A post-mortem examination was unable to ascertain the cause of death.'  > Medium is the text created by the Cognizer to communicate that they came to believe a specified Content.


Input:
LUs: демонстрировать > изображать > отразить
Example: Преподаватель демонстрировал ученикам физические опыты.
FN Name: Cause_to_perceive
FN Core FEs: Agent > Phenomenon > Perceiver > Actor > Entity > Medium
FN Definition: An Agent, Actor, Entity, or Medium causes a Phenomenon to be perceived by a Perceiver.  With an Actor, Entity, or Medium, the Perceiver is usually unspecified.   'Aileen showed Rob the book.' 'He exhibited great interest in the project.' 'The second scene depicts  Dad  holding the ball for a place kick.' 'The economy is showing signs of growth.'  NB: This may change in the future, but as of now this frame subsumes three closely-related cause/perceiver alternations:  a.) perception of a specific Perceiver caused by an Agent, b.) perception of some implicit audience caused, possibly unintentionally, by an Actor, and c.) perception of some implicit audience caused by a Medium or Entity. Perhaps this frame is too broad - the different subject FEs seem to all indicate different ways of "showing."
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent intentionally creates a situation in which the Perceiver observes or experiences the Phenomenon. > The Phenomenon is an entity or idea that is perceived by the Perceiver. > The Perceiver is made to have a perceptual experience by the Agent. > An Actor is a sentient being who is exhibiting, possibly uninintentionally, some Phenomenon. > An object that has some association with a Phenomenon. > The Medium through which a Phenomenon is expressed.


Input:
LUs: длиться > продлиться > продолжаться
Example: Бой длился до полуночи.
FN Name: Duration_relation
FN Core FEs: Eventuality > Period > Duration > Entity
FN Definition: A Period or Eventuality is related to its Duration.  Alternatively, an Entity may stand in metonymically for an Eventuality that it is involved in.  'You wouldn't last five minutes!'
FN Core FEs definitions: A situation, action or event whose duration is being described.  The Eventuality occurs as the External Argument if the adjective is used predicatively, or as the modified noun if the adjective is used attributively:   'The lecture did n't last long .'  'My unease persisted for some time .' 'Persisting decades past the end of the war , the economic disaster was to shape the fate of central Europe .' > Sometimes a period of time, rather than an event or state is described.    'This difficult period lasted only a short while .' > The amount of time that the Eventuality, Period, or Entity lasts.  'If the film lasts more than one hour , I ca n't stay .' > An item which is metonymically related to an Eventuality.  Some common eventualities that are metonymically entailed are the effect of the entity in its capacity as an instrument and the existence of the entity.  'The anesthesia lasted four hours .' 'You would n't last five minutes !'


Input:
LUs: добиться > достигнуть > исполниться > совершить
Example: Учитель добивался, чтобы дети ежедневно слушали музыку .
FN Name: Accomplishment
FN Core FEs: Agent > Goal
FN Definition: After a period in which the Agent has been working on a Goal, the Agent manages to attain it.  The Goal may be a desired state, or be conceptualized as an event. '' 'Jeremey obediently accomplished this task.'  'In response, the Prime Minister has simply cited his free-market accomplishments. '
FN Core FEs definitions: The conscious entity, generally a person, that performs the intentional act that fulfills the Goal. > The state or action that the Agent has wished to participate in.  'Iraq had achieved its programme objective of producing nuclear weapons . '


Input:
LUs: дождаться > ждать > ожидать
Example: На платформе группы туристов дожидались поезда.
FN Name: Waiting
FN Core FEs: Protagonist > Salient_entity > Expected_event
FN Definition: A Protagonist delays a planned action because they cannot or do not want to proceed until an Expected_event occurs. The Expected_event may be evoked by reference to a Salient_entity that participates in it.  If a Salient_entity is expressed, the Expected_event is typically the arrival of the Salient_entity at the Place where the Protagonist is located.   'The cat waited on top of the washer as Elmer popped the lid off the can of cat food and then pounded the can's contents onto the plate'  'The family was furious that their 84-year-old dad had to wait 52 hours in the emergency room.'  Although in both frames a Protagonist/Agent is not performing some desired action for some period of time, the use of wait.v in this frame is different from that in Holding_off_on in that Waiting prominently portrays a future event that will allow the Protagonist to proceed (with doing something), whereas Holding_off_on does not necessarily imply that there is some event or state-of-affairs that will allow the Agent to proceed, rather focussing on the action that the Agent is not yet taking.
FN Core FEs definitions: The sentient being who cannot proceed with their planned activities until a Salient_entity has arrived or an Expected_event has occurred.  'He politely waited, hat in hand, until he could speak.' > A concrete or abstract entity that the Protagonist expects to participate in an Expected_event, typically that of arriving at the Place of the Protagonist.  'In busier times several passengers are waiting for the train.' > The Expected_event is an event that needs to take place or a state that needs to begin to hold before the Protagonist can proceed with their planned activities.  'She did n't wait for a reply, but spelled out the answer herself.' 'Then you have to wait about thirty seconds for there to be enough charge for a second jolt.' ''


Input:
LUs: доказать
Example: Майкельсон доказал, что свет распространяется с постоянной скоростью в 300 000 км в секунду.
FN Name: Reasoning
FN Core FEs: Content > Arguer
FN Definition: An Arguer presents a Content, along with Support, to an Addressee.  The Content may refer elliptically to a course of action or it may refer to a proposition that the Addressee is to believe.  Some lexical units (e.g. "prove") indicate the speaker's belief about the Content.'Jan argued that the evidence was inadmissable.''Jan argued against the admissability of the evidence.''Jan proved  that the evidence was inadmissable.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Arguer wants the Addressee to entertain the Content, which can be a proposition to be believed or a course of action to be taken, based on the Support presented.'Jan argued that the evidence was inadmissable.' > The Arguer presents the Content before the Addressee.'Jan argued that the evidence was inadmissable.'


Input:
LUs: демонстрировать > доказать > значить > обнаружить > открыть > показать > предъявить > проявить > развернуть
Example: Факты  доказывают, что гражданской войны можно избежать.
FN Name: Evidence
FN Core FEs: Support > Proposition
FN Definition: The Support, a phenomenon or fact,  lends support to a claim or proposed course of action, the Proposition, where the Domain_of_relevance may also be expressed.  Some of the words in this frame (e.g. argue) are communication words used in a non-communicative, epistemic sense.  'The latest poll results show that support of the president is at an all-time low.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Support is a fact that lends epistemic support to a claim, or that provides a reason for a course of action. Typically it is expressed as an External Argument. 'The fact that you lied to me shows that I shouldn't trust you.' 'The look on your face reveals that you are lying.' > This is a belief, claim, or proposed course of action to which the Support lends validity. Normally it is expressed as a Finite Clause Complement: 'The fact that you lied to me shows that I shouldn't trust you.' Some words in this frame require the proposition to be expressed as an NP Object: 'The fact that you lied substantiates the claim that you can't be trusted.'


Input:
LUs: дополнить > отдыхать
Example: Участники похода дополняли рассказы руководителя интересными деталями.
FN Name: Rest
FN Core FEs: Part > Rest > Whole
FN Definition: One Part of a larger Whole has been mentioned, is inferrable, or is available in the discourse setting and the previously unmentioned part, the Rest, is now mentioned.  'The lenses , like the rest of the exoskeleton, are made of calcite.' 'They see social policy work as a natural complement to bureau work.'
FN Core FEs definitions: A Part of a larger Whole that has been mentioned in prior discourse or is available in the discourse setting.   'the GP had stipulated counselling as a complement to medication' > The previously unmentioned part of the Whole.   'You should try to persuade the rest of the family to do so whatever their personal opinions' > The larger entitiy or group that is fully made up of the Part and the Rest.


Input:
LUs: допросить > задать
Example: Начальник штаба допрашивает пленного о численности войск противника.
FN Name: Questioning
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Addressee > Message > Topic
FN Definition: The words in this frame have to do with a Speaker asking an Addressee a question which calls for a reply (as opposed to making a request which calls for an action on the part of the Addressee).  '' 'We asked Ruby what kind of food they ate.'  'Yeats was able to interrogate the spirit world about his relationship with Maude.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person asking a question generally occurs as the External Argument of verb and noun targets:  'Pat quizzed me about where I had been.' 'Pat's question surprised me. ' > The Addressee is most frequently the NP Object of a target verb.  However, with the verb inquire, Addressee can only occur as an of-PP and with a noun target, Addressee occurs in a PP Complement or as a possessive : 'Pat questioned me about where I had been.' '"Do you often come here?" Kim inquired of the person sitting next to her.'  'My question to you is straightforward.' 'Kim's interrogation by the police was long.' > The Message, or content of the question, usually takes the form of a direct quote or an embedded question with a verb target:  '"What are you doing?" Kim inquired.' 'Kim inquired what I was doing.' With noun targets, Message is not common (as Topic occurs more  frequently).  However, Message does occur in a PP Complement with the noun question:  'The answer to your question of how the company makes money is simply that it doesn't. ' > Topic occurs very frequently in this frame with both noun and verb targets. It generally occurs as a PP Complement: 'Pat inquired about train times.' 'Pat's inquiry about train times fell on deaf ears.'


Input:
LUs: воображать > допускать > знать > подозревать > понимать
Example: Я допускаю, что он искренне ошибается.
FN Name: Awareness
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Content > Topic > Expressor
FN Definition: A Cognizer has a piece of Content in their model of the world.  The Content is not necessarily present due to immediate perception, but usually, rather, due to deduction from perceivables.  In some cases, the deduction of the Content is implicitly based on confidence in sources of information (believe), in some cases based on logic (think), and in other cases the source of the deduction is deprofiled (know).  'Your boss is aware of your commitment.' '' Note that this frame is undergoing some degree of reconsideration.  Many of the targets will be moved to the Opinion frame.  That frame indicates that the Cognizer considers something as true, but the Opinion (compare to Content) is not presupposed to be true; rather it is something that is considered a potential point of difference, as in the following:    'I think that you are awesome.'  In the uses that will remain in the Awareness frame, however, the Content is presupposed.  '' This frame is also distinct from the Certainty frame, in that it does not profile the relationship of the Cognizer to the Content, but rather presupposes it.  In Certainty, the Degree of confidence or certainty is expressible as a separate frame element, as in the following:  'She absolutely knew that he would be there .'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Cognizer is the person whose awareness of phenomena is at question. With a target verb or adjective the Cognizer is generally expressed as an External Argument with the Content expressed as an Object or Complement. 'Your boss is aware of your commitment.' 'The students do not know the answer.'  Examples like the following belong in Opinion: 'Pat believes that things will change for the better.'  > The Content is the object of the Cognizer's awareness. Content can be expressed as a direct object or in a PP Complement.  'Your boss is aware of your commitment.' 'The students do not know of your commitment.' 'The students do not know how committed you are.' 'The students did not know that you were so committed.' Examples like the following belong in Opinion: 'Pat believes that things will change for the better.'  > Some verbs in this frame allow a Topic to be expressed in about-PPs. 'Kim knows about first aid.'  However, a number of nouns and adjectives in this frame which cannot take about-phrases allow Topic to be expressed as an adjectival or adverbial modifier. 'Kim is politically aware. ' ' Environmental consciousness is increasing.'  > Expressor is the body part that reveals the Cognizer's state to the observer. 'Bob's eyes were overly aware'


Input:
LUs: добыть > извлечь
Example: Из недр Уральских гор  добыто много полезных ископаемых.
FN Name: Mining
FN Core FEs: Miner > Resource
FN Definition: A Miner attempts to obtain a desirable Resource, rocks and minerals, located in a Place being mined, by digging or tunneling in the ground.  'They mine diamonds in Africa.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Miner searches for mineral Resources. > The Resource is usually buried in the ground, and is searched for by the Miner.


Input:
LUs: занять
Example: Четырнадцатилетний юноша занял второе место по плаванию .
FN Name: Occupy_rank
FN Core FEs: Rank > Item > Dimension
FN Definition: This frame is about Items in the state of occupying a certain Rank within a hierarchy.  'He ranks second in his class in mathematics.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Rank which the Item occupies. > The Item which occupies the Rank in the hierarchy. > The dimension along which the ranking is defined.   'He ranks second in his class in mathematics.'


Input:
LUs: достигнуть > пристать
Example: Копии также достигли своих адресатов.
FN Name: Arriving
FN Core FEs: Theme > Goal
FN Definition: An object Theme moves in the direction of a Goal. The Goal may be expressed or it may be understood from context, but its is always implied by the verb itself. '' 'Some students arrived at the school on Sunday.'  'It was his arrival at Nijmegen in 837 that made the Vikings withdraw.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Theme is the object that moves. It may be an entity that moves under its own power, but it need not be. 'The officer approached the house.''I ducked as the baseball approached my head.' > Goal is any expression that tells where the Theme ends up, or would end up, as a result of the motion. 'We arrived in Paris before midnight.' Although always conceptually present and specific, Goal may sometimes be understood from context, rather than expressed by any separate constituent. 'Our visitors arrived yesterday.'


Input:
LUs: драться > сражаться
Example: Митя немедленно подрался с новеньким.
FN Name: Hostile_encounter
FN Core FEs: Side_1 > Side_2 > Sides > Issue > Purpose
FN Definition: This frame consists of words that describe a hostile encounter between opposing forces (Side_1 and Side_2, collectively conceptualizable as Sides) over a disputed Issue and/or in order to reach a specific  Purpose. '' 'He still wants to fight Mike Tyson in about 8 months.'  'Dennis Andries's European cruiserweight title clash against Akim Tafer of France in Beausoleil last February has been voted as the EBU's fight of the year.'
FN Core FEs definitions: One of two participants in a hostile encounter.  'While the U.S.'s battle with terrorist-harboring nations is far off ...' > One of two participants in a hostile encounter, usually the second mentioned. 'While the U.S.'s battle with terrorist-harboring nations is far off ...' > The jointly expressed sides in a hostile encounter.  'They fought over the right to own land.' > An unresolved question over which the two sides of a hostile encounter are in disagreement.   'They had a dust-up over who was prettier .'  Quite often it takes the form of a covert question of various sorts. So in an example like:  'They fought over the right to own land.'   among many other possibilities, the covert question might be more explicitly phrased as follows:  'They fought over what the right to own land means.'  > The desired result of the outcome of the hostile encounter for the Side_1 or for all the Sides collectively.  It may either directly refer to the state of affairs that is desired, e.g.  'He dueled with his former second to defend the honour of the man he had killed .'   or it the state of affairs may be implicit in an (abstract or concrete) entity that they desire, e.g.  'Rival Democratic presidential candidates Mr Bill Clinton and Mr Jerry Brown taunted each other at the weekend as mudslinging in the battle for votes in tomorrow's crucial New York primary reached a new low.'


Input:
LUs: дремать
Example: Люблю дремать на заднем сиденье.
FN Name: Sleep
FN Core FEs: Sleeper
FN Definition: The Sleeper stays in an altered state of consciousness with greatly reduced external awareness.  'We slept.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The entity that is sleeping.


Input:
LUs: жаловаться
Example: Старик жаловался на боли в области сердца .
FN Name: Complaining
FN Core FEs: Complainer > Complaint > Topic > Medium
FN Definition: A Complainer communicates their negative emotional reaction to some state of affairs in a Complaint to an Addressee. As an alternative to the specific Complaint, the Topic of the speaker's Complaint may be specified. Likewise, instead of (or in addition to) the Complainer, a Medium may be stated.    'The top US commander in Iraq complained to the Pentagon last winter that his supply situation was so poor that it threatened Army troops' ability to fight.'   'He said he will lodge a complaint with the ACCC. DNI'  'On the rare occasions I complained to him about media bias, Peter immediately ordered up a story that included conservative objections to mainstream reports .'  'The Op-Eds were full of gripes about the recent tax hike.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Complainer is the sentient entity that produces the Complaint (whether spoken or written).     'Peter has moaned about it on another thread but it sure must be nice for him to wallow again.' > The lamentable situation that the Complainer is communicating to the Addressee.    'One observer groused that Skagway was "little better than hell on earth."' > The Topic is the subject matter to which the Complaint pertains.   'Ferdinand attended the reception at the city hall and complained vociferously about his reception at the city.' > Medium is the physical entity or channel used by the Complainer to transmit the Complaint.   'I don't mean to discount any of what he has bitched about in his article, because most of his points are actually valid. '


Input:
LUs: жениться
Example: Мой отец женился по любви .
FN Name: Forming_relationships
FN Core FEs: Partner_1 > Partner_2 > Partners
FN Definition: Partner_1 interacts with Partner_2 (also collectively expressible as Partners) to change their social relationship.    'I befriended the little pony by giving him a piece of apple.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual who comes to form a relationship with Partner_2.  > The individual whose relationship with Partner_1 changes. > The individuals whose relationship is changing.


Input:
LUs: жертвовать
Example: Мать готова была пожертвовать жизнью  для  своего сына.
FN Name: Sacrificing_for
FN Core FEs: Agent > Asset > Benefit
FN Definition: An Agent sacrifices an (often abstract) Asset in exchange for a Benefit which is deemed better or more worth having.  'We never sacrifice quality for price.'  'What are you willing to sacrifice to get a chance at winning?'  'Most people in that position probably would have compromised their principles. INI.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent gives up the Asset in hopes of receiving a greater Benefit.  'We never sacrifice quality for price.' > The item which is sacrificed by the Agent.  'We never sacrifice quality for price.' > The Agent hopes to receive or gain advantage from the Benefit as a result of giving up the Asset.  'We never sacrifice quality for price.'


Input:
LUs: жертвовать > молиться
Example: Она жертвовала богине деторождения.
FN Name: Rite
FN Core FEs: Leader > Member > Organization > Instrument > Desired_state_of_affairs > Type > Object > New_status > Guardian
FN Definition: This frame concerns rituals performed in line with religious beliefs or tradition.  'In certain fertility rites in Burma , a woman desirous of offspring is required not only to approach the King Cobra but to plant a kiss on its mouth .'  'He was ordered a priest in 1944. CNI '
FN Core FEs definitions: This is the religious or cultural leader who performs and/or leads the rite.  'The medicine man performs this ritual' > The FE Member describes the member of the religious or cultural group who participates in/undergoes the rite.  'Joe received communion.' > Organization identifies the institution in which the rite is prescribed.  'His baptism into the Catholic Church is scheduled for next Sunday.' > This FE identifies the Instrument used to perform a particular rite.  'We baptise children with holy water' > This FE identifies the state which the rite is hoped or intended to bring about. 'They performed a fertility ritual.' > The type of ritual or ceremony being performed.  'We performed the traditional marriage rites' > This FE indicates an object on which a rite is performed.  'The priest blessed the wine' > Rites may confer a New_status on a participant (e.g. rank, membership).  'Elliott was almost ordained as a priest' > The Guardian is the member of the Organization who instigates the rite for someone of which they are a guardian.  '<fex name = "Guardian">Mr. and Mrs. Wilson baptized their son.'


Input:
LUs: жить > занять > проживать > прожить
Example: С соседями  невозможно жить.
FN Name: Residence
FN Core FEs: Resident > Location > Co_resident
FN Definition: This frame has to do with people (the Residents) residing in Locations, sometimes with a Co-resident.  'Peter lives in New York.' 'Sue is an inhabitant of Los Angeles.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual(s) that reside at the Location.  'Hannah lives in San Francisco.' > The place in which somebody resides.  'Sue  lives in Berkeley.' > A person or group of people that the resident is staying with or among.  'Boris still lives with his parents.'


Input:
LUs: забить > завалить > залить > зарасти > наполнить
Example: Пролив совсем забило.
FN Name: Filling
FN Core FEs: Agent > Theme > Goal > Cause
FN Definition: These are words relating to filling containers and covering areas with some thing, things or substance, the Theme. The area or container can appear as the direct object with all these verbs, and is designated Goal because it is the goal of motion of the Theme. Corresponding to its nuclear argument status, it is also affected in some crucial way, unlike goals in other frames.  'Lionel Hutz coated the wall with paint. '
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is the actor who instigates the filling. > The Theme is the physical object or substance which changes location. 'Rev. Lovejoy carefully brushed the rolls with butter. ' > The Goal is the area or container being filled. Goal is generally the NP Object in this frame. > An event which brings about the filling of the Goal.


Input:
LUs: бить > забить > пожать > протянуть > развернуть > рубить
Example: Она забила руками и ногами, оказавшись в воде.
FN Name: Body_movement
FN Core FEs: Agent > Body_part
FN Definition: This frame contains words for motions or actions an Agent performs using some part of his/her body.   A number of words in this frame occur as blends with Communication, in which the action has an Addressee.  For example,   'Pat nodded at Kim.'  These examples differ from Communication.Gesture in that no specific message need be expressed, as in  'She nodded to him to sit down.'  Since this frame involves a particular type of motion, it contains the frame elements Source, Path, Goal and Area, which originate in the motion frame.  All of these frame elements are generally expressed in PP Complements.  'The boy swung his legs from under the table.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent uses some part of his/her body to perform the action. Agent occurs as the External Argument. 'The boy swung his legs.' > With some verbs in this frame, the Body_part involved in the action is specified by the meaning of the verb and cannot be expressed separately.  For example,  'Pat yawned (*his mouth).'  With others, the Body_part is specified by the verb but can optionally be expressed separately, although its presence is generally redundant, as in 'Pat nodded (his head).'  A few verbs have a default Body_part which need not be expressed, but can be overridden by the expression of some other Body_part. 'Pat waved (his arms).' (The objectless version of the sentence, Pat waved, is a blend with communication.) The remainder of the verbs require a Body_part to be expressed in a separate constituent:  'Pat rolled his eyes.' Body_part generally occurs as the direct object. 


Input:
LUs: брызгаться > забить > капать > плескать
Example: Из тверди забил источник.
FN Name: Fluidic_motion
FN Core FEs: Area > Goal > Path > Source > Fluid
FN Definition: In this frame a Fluid moves from a Source to a Goal along a Path or within an Area.  ' The blood spurted from the wound. ''The water gushed into the house . '
FN Core FEs definitions: Area is the setting in which the Fluid's movement takes place on an unspecified Path. 'The Thames River flows throughout England.' > Goal is the location the Fluid ends up. > The Path is the trajectory along which the Fluid moves. > The Source is the location the Fluid occupies initially. > The Fluid is the entity that changes location and moves in a fluidic way.


Input:
LUs: забросить
Example: Пароход забрасывает на остров новую смену полярников и почту и возвращается назад.
FN Name: Delivery
FN Core FEs: Deliverer > Goal > Theme > Recipient
FN Definition: A Deliverer hands off a Theme to a Recipient or (more indirectly) a Goal location, which is accessible to the Recipient.    'The staff of Ebags delivered the umbrella well ahead of schedule.'  'In each class a dove flew in and delivered a red rose to Ginny.'  'The Pontifical Delegation for the delivery of the Icon of the Kazan Mother of God will arrive tomorrow. '
FN Core FEs definitions: This is the person who completes the movement of the Theme after having transported it.  'That afternoon, a staff courier delivered the box from St. Petersburg to Largo.' > The end of the path and intended goal of the sending.  'I delivered the packages to the storage room.' > The objects being delivered.  'I delivered the documents to the court house.'  > This is the Recipient of the sent Theme.  'Tess delivered a package to Abby and her kitty.'


Input:
LUs: забросить > остаться
Example: Могила  была совсем заброшена.
FN Name: Abandonment
FN Core FEs: Agent > Theme
FN Definition: An Agent leaves behind a Theme effectively rendering it no longer within their control or of the normal security as one's property.   'Carolyn abandoned her car and jumped on a red double decker bus.'  'Perhaps he left the key in the ignition'  'Abandonment of a child is considered to be a serious crime in many jurisdictions.'  There are also metaphorically used examples:  'She left her old ways behind .'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is the person who acts to leave behind the Theme. > The Theme is the entity that is relinguished to no one from the Agent's possession.


Input:
LUs: забыть
Example: Я забыл номер вашего дома .
FN Name: Remembering_experience
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Salient_entity > Experience > Impression > State
FN Definition: A Cognizer calls up an episodic memory of past Experience or an Impression of a Salient_entity formed  on the basis of past experience. The Cognizer may also remember  the Salient_entity in a particular State, which serves as a frame of reference in the Cognizer's mind.   When attention is focused on a Salient_entity, then mention of a global Experience is excluded and typically, but not always, either a State or Impression of the Salient_entity is presented.  '' Episodic memory is the  explicit memory of events. It includes time, place, and associated emotions (which affect the quality of the memorization). Episodic memory contrasts and interacts with semantic memory, the memory of facts and concepts. The Remembering_information frame is concerned with this latter type of memory.   'Kozmo could remember when his modem was the fastest he could buy.'  'That's probably before my time, which was long time ago, Fish may remember that time.'  'Who remembers me being a total dork and going up to everyone saying "Hey, I'm Ashley Hunt from Chicago"!?!'   ' I wanted to remember how good that felt.'  'Hummel says staff, both students and professional, remember  her as a "very good friend, available for new staff and well-respected by everyone."'   'Somehow I remember him as older, with long eyelashes, and doe eyes.'  'When he died he was just a kid himself but for some reason at the age of 44 I still remember him as older than me. '  'Retro games are great, but a lot of the time people get clouded by nostalgia and remember them to be better than they really were'  'He remembered him as a kindly man but not a very lively one. '  'The part I vividly remember was about a South Seas tramp steamer captain . '
FN Core FEs definitions: A person who recalls memories of past experience or impressions.   'I will truly miss Delmar and I will always remember when his eyes lit up everytime he got ice-cream.' > A person or thing that the Cognizer remembers as being involved in some state or event or as having some property.  'today I saw a sister's exclassmate, and didn't recognise him, I remember him taller.' > A past event or state that the Cognizer witnessed and is now recalling. The Experience may be a specific event or state or a vaguer period that is treated as a unit.  ' I can still remember saying the pledge every morning before class in elementary school, a rare occurrence among elementary school kids nowadays. '     > A property that the Cognizer attributes to the Salient_entity based on their past experience of the Salient_entity or a category to which the Salient_entity is assigned.  'I remember Peter as immensely kind in those first three weeks before I was packed off to boarding school.' > A property or role that a Salient_entity actually held and which frames the memories that the Cognizer has of the Salient_entity.  'Atulprasad is principally remembered as a musician and composer. '


Input:
LUs: забыть
Example: Не забывайте про конкурентов.
FN Name: Remembering_to_do
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Action > Salient_entity
FN Definition: A Cognizer thinks of and performs an Action that is a self- or other-imposed task or some other kind of desirable behavior. The Action may involve a Salient_entity in some way affected by the Cognizer. If a Salient_entity is mentioned, the Action is left unexpressed.   'You invited everybody but you forgot Harry.'  'Thank God Smithers remembered to return the video..'  'If you forget your textbook and there is an assignment to be done, the highest grade you will receive on the work is aC (70%).'  'Did you remember about the letter?'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who thinks of or fails to think of an obligatory or desireable Action.  '.Alex and Zach Swindle, Centre, visited their brother in San Francisco in June and remembered to take along a copy of The Post>. ' > An Action that the Cognizer is supposed to carry out. This may be a Task imposed specifically on the Cognizer or it may be self- or socially imposed.  'This time we remembered to turn the gas off before leaving.' > The Salient_entity is a person or thing that the Cognizer needs to affect or effect when carrying out the Action.  'We piled into the taxi and right when we were about to leave, I realized we forgot the video camera'


Input:
LUs: завалить
Example: Солдаты завалили ров песком .
FN Name: Distributed_position
FN Core FEs: Theme > Location
FN Definition: This frame involves a static (primarily spatial) relationship between a Location and a Theme, in which the Theme is located in many or all subregions of the Location, and is thus construable as covering it. The Time when the covering configuration holds, and the Subregion of the Location that is involved may, optionally, be indicated.    'By Summer, weeds dotted the field .' 'The papers around my office were too messy .' Prepositional and verb targets of this frame differ in the ways they can participate in forming sentences; one of the most important differences is that prepositions may modify the entire sentence to describe the event (the Theme) as distributed over the Location. 'Puddles were rippling all over the roof .'  Some members of this frame specifically indicate that the configuration is attractive or unattractive; this is indicated by the semantic types Positive_judgement and Negative_judgement respectively.  Some of the non-verb LUs of the frame (esp. around.prep) refer to multiple possible positions that might be occupied by a single Theme, often accompanied by "somewhere":  'I hope my wallet is around here (somewhere) .'  These same LUs may refer a vague sequence of locations occupied by a single Theme:  'I kept walking around my apartment .'  All or virtually all of the verbs used statically in this frame can also occur in the frame Filling, producing pairs such as the following:  'Filling: Pat covered the table with flowers.'  'Distributed_position: Flowers covered the table.'  '' Please note: adorned, covered, etc are in the Abounding_with frame because of the point of view shift. '' 'The tree was studded all over with soft dark fruit.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Theme in this frame is the object which is described as standing in some spatial relation to a particular Location.  Theme typically occurs as the External Argument or, with passives, as a PP Complement headed by "with" or "by".'Ribbons festooned the car.''The table was covered by a purple velvet cloth.'  > Location is the entity or area with respect to which the Theme's spatial arrangement is described.  This frame element generally occurs as an NP Object.'Thick varnish coated the beautiful wood.' 


Input:
LUs: завернуть > развернуть
Example: Извозчик заворачивает лошадь назад .
FN Name: Change_direction
FN Core FEs: Theme > Direction
FN Definition: A Theme that is in motion assumes a new Direction in which it moves.   'We took our chances and turned right by a petrol station and, bingo, there she was--Fir Park.'  'Molly followed silently as Desmond left the large paneled hall and turned right through a swing door into a long, bare corridor.'  'Cross O'Connell Bridge and continue along D'Olier Street, make a right turn onto College Street. CNI'  'Go past the unattended guardhouse, and take a sharp left turn down the ramp. CNI'  'Take the elevator to the sixth floor and make two lefts. CNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: This is the object which moves. In many sentences this FE will be expressed as something which moves under its own power. However, this FE is not required to be an animate mover, so it is different from a self-mover.  'At that point the truck in front of me turned right into the huge ditch/field that separates the interstate from the access road.'  > The new direction in which the Theme continues its motion.  'Eventually, though, I backtracked to Kel Tole and hung a left toward Kilgal Tole.'


Input:
LUs: завернуть > отказаться
Example: Зеков завернули назад в лагерь.
FN Name: Respond_to_proposal
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Interlocutor > Proposal
FN Definition: A Speaker addresses a Proposal made by an Interlocutor, either agreeing to it or rejecting it. Agreeing entails a social responsibility on the Speaker to bring about some state of affairs encoded in the Proposal.  'They were rebuffed again in the larger city of Provo. CNI '  'Last month Mr Duisenberg delivered a sharp rebuff to Mr Welteke. '  'He rebuffed Singh's every overture,  relentlessly pursuing a cap on India's nuclear capability.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Speaker is the person who communicates the reply or response.   'Iran on Saturday rejected Europe's proposal for ending the standoff over Tehran's nuclear program.' > This is the person who made the Proposal to the Speaker and to whom the Speaker communicates  their response. This frame element stands in for the Proposal and is only licensed when the Proposal  can be understood from the context.  'But senior SLN officials had rebuffed the man who is ever so willing to please the guerrillas.' > The Proposal is the prior communication or action to which a response is given.  'Dr. Carolyn Herrington has accepted our offer to become Dean of the College of Education .'


Input:
LUs: зависеть > определить
Example: От тебя зависит, сумею ли я поехать к маме.
FN Name: Contingency
FN Core FEs: Outcome > Determinant
FN Definition: The answer to one open question, the Outcome, is dictated (partially or completely) by the answer to another open question, the Determinant, i.e. if the answer to the Determinant is known, the answer to the Outcome can be predicted.  The Degree of predictive power and the Circumstances under which the dependency holds can also be expressed.  'Economic policy is partially a function of cultural values.' 'Well, that depends ... DNI' 'In Mediaeval times, status was dependent on birth.'
FN Core FEs definitions: An open question that is (to some degree) predictable from the Determinant.   > An open question that determines the Outcome.  'Price, in such a case, depends only on the whim of the supplier.'


Input:
LUs: задать
Example: Начальник задал мне головомойку  за опоздание.
FN Name: Corporal_punishment
FN Core FEs: Agent > Evaluee > Reason
FN Definition: Blend of Rewards_and_punishments and Bodily_injury in which the Agent performs some action intended to cause Bodily harm to the Evaluee as a consequence of some action or belief of the Evaluee (the Reason).  'The Sheriff flogged him for his crimes.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is the person performing the intentional act. > Evaluee is the person or thing about whom/which a judgment is made. With verbs this FE is typically expressed as Object:  'You will be flogged for your actions.' > Typically, there is a constituent expressing the Reason for the Judge's judgment. It is usually a for-PP, e.g.  'The Sheriff flogged him for his crimes.'


Input:
LUs: встать > задержать > задержаться > затруднять
Example: Сваи задержали хворост, плывший по реке.
FN Name: Hindering
FN Core FEs: Protagonist > Hindrance > Action
FN Definition: In this frame a Hindrance makes it more difficult for a Protagonist to complete their intended Action or a Hindrance directly affects an Action where the Action can be a natural act or the actions of many individuals in a collective endeavor.  Crucially, these lexical units do not entail that the Protagonist was unable to complete the Action or that the Action did not occur. The Hindrance may indicate a lack of enablement or an obstacle on the natural progression of the Protagonist or Action   ' Malcolm was hindered by his drinking problem . '  ' A lack of money hampered our plans . ' ' Many candidates' progress is severely impeded because they have to resit for the exam. '  ' The new dam impeded the flow of water . '
FN Core FEs definitions: The Protagonist is the entity that tends towards or plans some Action which the Hindrance causes to be more difficult. > The Hindrance is the force which makes the Action more difficult or less likely to be successfully completed. The Hindrance may be a lack of enabling force: ' The project was hampered by a lack of funds. ' or the Hindrance may be an obstacle in the natural progression of the Protagonist or Action. ' Burns was hindered by Smither's violent attack. ' > The Action is what the Protagonist desires to do, which is made more difficult by the Hindrance. It can also be a natural act or collective endeavor, not linked to an overt Protagonist.


Input:
LUs: задержать
Example: Патруль задержал беглеца у заставы .
FN Name: Detaining
FN Core FEs: Authorities > Suspect
FN Definition: The Authorities hold a Suspect under suspicion of having committed a crime (Charges). The Holding_location and period of detention (Duration) may also be specified. 'The police held Mr. Smith in the slammer on charges of killing his lawyer.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Authorities hold the Suspect in custody. > This FE identifies the person who is taken into custody and held, under suspicion of having committed a crime.


Input:
LUs: задержаться
Example: Сев задерживается из-за дождей.
FN Name: Change_event_time
FN Core FEs: Agent > Cause > Event
FN Definition: In this frame, an Agent or Cause changes the timing of an Event. The Event will then take place at the Destination_time or with respect to a Destination_event. This can be done with by certain Means, in a certain Manner or to a certain Degree.  'The rain delayed the baseball game.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is the animate entity which brings about the change in time of the Event. 'The umpire postponed the game.' > The Cause is the non-sentient force which brings about the change of time for the Event. 'The rain delayed the baseball game.' > The Event is the occurrence which changes time. 'The opening of the musical was delayed.'</def-root >


Input:
LUs: зажечь
Example: Зажги, пожалуйста, газ.
FN Name: Setting_fire
FN Core FEs: Kindler > Flame > Flammables > Cause
FN Definition: This frame describes either the creation of a Flame by a Kindler or non-sentient Cause, or the igniting of Flammables by a Kindler or a Cause.  'Taliban militants recently set fire to several schools.'  'The fire ignited. CNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Kindler is the person performing the intentional act. ' Mark started the fire with a magnifying glass. ' > The Flame is what is created by the Kindler. 'Oscar started the fire.' > The Flamables is the the object that is set on fire by the Kindler. 'Tracy set the couch on fire.' > The cause of the fire. 'A spark ignited the curtains.' 


Input:
LUs: заключаться
Example: Весь мир заключался в зеленой жвачке.
FN Name: Identity
FN Core FEs: Instance
FN Definition: An Instance of some type is conceived of as having an Identity, defined as the unique feature that distinguishes each Instance from all other instances of its type.  Identity persists across time and remains constant for an Instance despite arbitrary changes in other attributes of the Instance.  Establishing Identity answers the question "which".  'I still have questions about her identity .' 'Which dinner did you choose ?'  Identity is not the same as appearance or name (if the Instance even has such), although these attributes of the Instance may be useful in establishing Identity.  Identity can be established knowing the totality of the history of an Instance; however, this is impractical and usually proxies like name and appearance are used.  For the Identity of humans, history sufficient to establish Identity can usually be satisfactorily established by documents associated with the person, often with information like appearance and name, though use of such documents contributes to the problem of multiple identities, only one of which is considered legitimate or "true" in a given context.  Just as we would consider gun in "fake gun" to contain a reference to the normal concept of Weapon, we consider identity in "multiple identities" to belong to this frame, even if only one of the identities is legitimate.  Multiple identities can also exist when each is primarily associated with a fragment or aspect of the history and attributes of an entity, and the "true" identity might be very much debatable; in most such cases, there are different names associated with the different identities, as in the case of stage names or Ellis-Island names, but sometimes, the different "identities" go under the same name (e.g., some members of secret societies). While these may be considered different identities, they refer to the same person. '' This frame is intended to cover cases where an entity is mentioned, but the category it fits is what is actually meant:  'We need to determine the identity of the metal used in the picture frame .'  In this case, it is not individual identity of the physical hunk of metal that is intended to be in question, but rather the category that the hunk of metal fits into; i.e., the specific element or elemental composition of the metal is what is in question.  Such sentences should be understood as determining which Instance of the supercategory is intended.  '' This frame is not intended to cover related, and often more common, uses of the word "identity" such as "sexual identity", "national identity", or "brand identity", which do not refer to a unique identity of an Instance, or even the identity of a supercategory of the Instance, but rather refer to the specific properties of an Instance that are considered very important for how the Instance operates in aggregate.  Thus, uses like "losing your identity" are not intended to be covered by this frame.
FN Core FEs definitions: The instance of a type or out of a set that is currently under discussion.


Input:
LUs: закрыть > открыть > развернуть
Example: Она закрыла зонтик .
FN Name: Closure
FN Core FEs: Containing_object > Agent > Fastener > Container_portal
FN Definition: An Agent manipulates a Fastener to open or close a Containing_object (e.g. coat, jar).  Sometimes an Enclosed_region or a Container_portal may be expressed. Since the Manipulator is syntactically omissible, many verbs in this frame incorporate the Fastener.  'Mary closed her coat with a belt.' 'Mary closed her coat with one hand.' 'Mary buttoned her coat .'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE identifies the item that is closed by the agent with the fastener. Lee buttoned his coat. > The Agent opens/closes the Containing-object. 'Harry uncorked the champagne.' > This FE identifies the fastener that the agent manipulates. 'Marcus tied his shoe with the neon-green shoelaces.' > This FE identifies the active zone of the container that may be expressed as the direct object of the target verb.   'We zipped the tent flap.' The sentence refers to the closure of the tent, hence is different from sentences where the action involves the manipulation of a fastener, e.g. We unscrewed the lid.


Input:
LUs: закрыть
Example: Столовую закрыли на ремонт.
FN Name: Locale_closure
FN Core FEs: Locale
FN Definition: A building or location that can be sealed to prevent entrance, the Locale, ceases to be open for use.  'That park closed last year.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Locale is the entity that ceases to be available for use.  'The other post office closed so they could build a new one.'


Input:
LUs: заменить > менять
Example: Он решил заменить пиджак курточкой .
FN Name: Replacing
FN Core FEs: Agent > New > Old
FN Definition: An Agent changes the filler of a  Role by placing a New filler in the position after the Old filler ceases to occupy the position.  Often this entails the Agent removing the Old filler.  In most cases the Role is implicit.  'If you replace me with a robot, who's gonna make excuses to your wife for you?'  'Following Keating 's resignation from the Cabinet Hawke immediately replaced him as Deputy Prime Minister with Brian Howe , Minister for Community Services and Health.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The conscious entity, generally a person, that performs actions resulting in the New entity occupying the position. > The New entity is the person or thing that the Agent sets to fill a Role.  'I don't know; perhaps you could substitute regular sugar.' > The entity that formerly occupied the position.  'If you substitute a 15" arm for the 50cm one, it works pretty well.' 'Please replace the broken fixture as soon as possible.'


Input:
LUs: замерзнуть
Example: Вода замерзла.
FN Name: Change_of_phase
FN Core FEs: Patient
FN Definition: In this frame a Patient undergoes a change of phase.  Note that this frame contrasts with Change_of_consistency in that this frame describes a change of a Patient between different phases (i.e. solid to liquid or frozen to "unfrozen").  'The water froze.' 'The rock solidifies from its molten state.' 'The lake froze solid.' 'The lake froze into ice.' 'The lake froze to depths of 30 feet.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Patient is the entity that undergoes a change of phase.   'The water froze.' 


Input:
LUs: владеть > остаться > полагаться > попасться > принадлежать
Example: Он владел прачечной .
FN Name: Possession
FN Core FEs: Owner > Possession
FN Definition: An Owner has (or lacks) a Possession. '' 'The river's part of my  manor, but of course it also belongs to the River Police.'  'It's a nuisance having to abandon my belongings, though.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The entity that owns a posession. > The thing which is owned by the Owner. Ex.:  I have twenty bucks. (This does not include bodyparts or medical conditions, but does include intellectual property, etc.)


Input:
LUs: арендовать
Example: Крестьяне арендовали землю у помещиков.
FN Name: Renting
FN Core FEs: Lessee > Goods
FN Definition: A Lessee gains the use of Goods owned by a Lessor by payment to the Lessor.  'We are renting our apartment from a kind man named Tom.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual that gains temporary use of the Goods by paying the Lessor  'We 've been renting from him for years .' > The FE Goods is an item which is temporarily exchanged for Money in a transaction.  'I tried to hire a bicycle .'


Input:
LUs: зарасти
Example: Рана заросла.
FN Name: Recovery
FN Core FEs: Patient > Affliction > Body_part
FN Definition: These words describe the recovery or healing of a Patient from an Affliction without reference to the influence of any Treatment or Healer (see the Cure frame).  '' 'My injuries had not yet completely healed.'  'Henley MP Michael Heseltine, recovering from a heart attack got a very public get well card.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The    Patient may either be expressed as the External Argument or, as in Health.Cure, may occur as the possessor of the Affliction (an example of FE conflation):  'Pat is convalescing from surgery.' 'Pat's wound is healing.' In the second example, Pat's wound is the Body_part, but Pat's is also an instantiation of the Patient. > This FE is the injury, pain or disease experienced by the Patient.  Affliction occurs either as an External Argument of verbs or as a PP Complement of nouns or verbs:  'The wound is healing well.' 'Pat's wound is healing well.' 'Pat is recovering from scarlet fever.' 'Pat's recovery from scarlet fever was very rapid. ' > Where Body Part is expressed as a separate constituent (rather than in phrases such as the wound on Pat's arm), it occurs as an External Argument:  'Pat's arm healed up quickly.'  Body Part is treated as a separate Frame Element although it may be viewed as metonymic for Affliction. 


Input:
LUs: затронуть
Example: Лучше не затрагивать ее любимых писателей .
FN Name: Mention
FN Core FEs: Communicator > Message > Medium > Specified_content
FN Definition: A Communicator or Medium briefly references something in a Message, in which only a subpart of the full content is profiled.   'The General Secretary mentions some of them in his report.'  'The Queen 's Speech also mentions the importance of making sure that Iraq complies with United Nations resolutions.'  ' When Barack Obama's name was mentioned, boos filled the room. CNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who uses language in the written or spoken modality to convey a Message to another person.   'Her father never mentioned it.' >  A proposition or set of propositions that the Communicator wants the Addressee to believe or take for granted.   'A CBS report did mention that the First Lady was required to wear a flak jacket for her safety.'  > The physical or abstract setting in which the Message is conveyed.   'The report also mentioned contamination problems during the manufacture.' > The relevant entity or state-of-affairs that the Communicator mentions.  'If someone mentions things like ration books , my stomach turns.'


Input:
LUs: арестовать > забрать > занять > захватить > извлечь > охватить > подобрать > подхватить > принять > разобрать
Example: Раненый захватил рукой  край гимнастерки.
FN Name: Taking
FN Core FEs: Agent > Theme > Source
FN Definition: An Agent removes a Theme from a Source so that the it is in the Agent's possession.  'Milton took the can of beer out of the refrigerator.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who takes possession of the Theme.  'Milton took the can of beer out of the refrigerator.' > The Agent takes possession of the Theme. 'Milton took the can of beer out of the refrigerator.' > The location of the Theme prior to the taking. 'Milton took the can of beer out of the refrigerator.'


Input:
LUs: звать
Example: Его звали аристократом .
FN Name: Referring_by_name
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Entity > Name
FN Definition: A Speaker uses a particular linguistic form, a Name to refer to an Entity.   The Entity often is an interlocutor but may be somebody that the Speaker is talking about, or even just a physical object. Note that we include titles such as "Sir" in the Name category.   'They corresponded frequently and at length, exchanging intimate letters in which he addressed her as Windflower. '  'We always called her "my lady," from the moment that she was put at the head of our section;'  'Sharpton called him Obama Baracka in HIS speech .... of all the people to screw his name up! '  ' And then in private he called me "Sausage", which really pissed me off. '  'I found out that her name for Barack was Obama .'  ' Advanced Micro Devices is going to call its next chip the Athlon 4'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who uses the Name  to refer to the Entity.   'The Lord, who was charmed by her beauty, addressed her as 'than kaadhali!' (My darling) and hence the name.' > The entity that is designated by the Speaker with the Name used.  'And that's the reason why we called him 'Tom' when his real name was actually John. '  > The linguistic form used by the Speaker to refer to the Entity.   'A male voice answered the call, and Jones addressed the man as "Johnny."'


Input:
LUs: вонять > выглядеть > звучать > казаться > пахнуть
Example: Его вопрос прозвучал для меня странно.
FN Name: Give_impression
FN Core FEs: Phenomenon > Characterization > Appraisal > Inference
FN Definition: In this class of perception words, a Phenomenon, typically expressed as External Argument, and its perceptual characteristics are given some description.  This may be a Characterization describing purely perceptual properties, an Appraisal (i.e. positive or negative judgment) or an Inference about some non-perceptual property based on the Perceiver_passive's perception.  '' 'There's a hamburger bar open, and it smells real good.'  'What we drank then tasted like sulphur and ox blood.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Phenomenon is typically the External Argument of the verbs in this frame.'The soup tasted very salty.'  > Characterization is the subjective description (of the Perceiver_passive ) of the Phenomenon.'Kim's new furniture looks sort of bluish.''The violins sounded as if they were in pain.''The city smelled like rotting sewage.' > Appraisal is the positive or negative judgement given to the Phenomenon.'Kim's hair feels nice.''That trumpet sounds dreadful.'  > Inference expresses some property of the Phenomenon that is not a direct  feature of the particular sensory modality (if any), but rather is based on perception within that modality.'Pat sounds devastated by the bad news.' Inference may superficially look like Appraisal, as in: 'That idea sounds dreadful.' However, it is not the perception of the "sound" of the idea that is "dreadful", it is the idea itself that is inferred to be dreadful based on what was heard. 'It looks like Johanna is going to the ball without me.' Note the dummy-it as subject in this sense of  "look"  and that  "appears that" could replace "looks like".  Here, it is _inferrable_ that Johanna will go to the ball without the speaker.


Input:
LUs: знакомиться
Example: Я еще не успел познакомиться с группой ,.
FN Name: Make_acquaintance
FN Core FEs: Individuals > Individual_1 > Individual_2
FN Definition: Individuals first encounter each other and make introductions at a particular Time, Place, or Context. The Individuals may have known of each other before making introductions. The Individuals may  be separately construed as Individual_1 and Individual_2. In some cases, there is a Explanation of the circumstances which lead to the Individuals' meeting.    'Impressed when he first met Nixon, he had always thought of him as an intelligent man, and believed that Nixon would take a stand for civil rights'  'We met each other in the university, worked in the same city and came to KSU together! '  'Horatio Nelson and Emma Hamilton first met in Naples in September 1793'  'Her name was Jenny and I met her through an online dating service.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The persons (or in rare cases animals) that make each other's acquaintance.  'My wife and I met in college working in the theatre and we will have been married for 30 years in June 2000.' > The semantically more prominent one of the two parties when the Individuals are realized separately.  'Melissa Hurley had never met her neighbor, Richard Congdon ? the dog owner ? until recently, when she and a reporter knocked on his door.' > The semantically less prominent of the two parties when the Individuals are expressed separately.  ' Gossip reports say she either met Kennedy while helping him shop for suits at Calvin Klein, or was contacted by him after he saw her jogging in a New York park '


Input:
LUs: значить
Example: Что значит по-английски «sun»? «Солнце» по-русски значит то же самое, что „sun» по-английски.
FN Name: Linguistic_meaning
FN Core FEs: Form > Meaning > Referent
FN Definition: A linguistic Form has a particular Meaning, possibly restricted to a particular Context.  Some linguistic Forms, nouns and nominal expressions, also can refer to an object in the real or an imagined world, a Referent.   '"Unicorn" denotes a mythological horse with a horn on its head.'  'In art, the word "oeuvre" means "the collected works of an artist."'
FN Core FEs definitions: Form is the formal pole of a linguistic sign. > Meaning is the sense of a linguistic Form. > Referent identifies an object in the real (or a hypothetical) world that a linguistic expression is used to talk about.


Input:
LUs: баловать > играть
Example: Она играет вальс .
FN Name: Competition
FN Core FEs: Participant_1 > Participant_2 > Participants > Competition
FN Definition: This frame is concerned with the idea that people (Participant_1, Participant_2, or Participants) participate in an organized, rule-governed activity (the Competition) in order to achieve some advantageous outcome (often the Prize).  Rank and Score are different criteria by which the degree of achievement of the advantageous outcome is judged.  'He and I played tennis.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE identifies the first (or only) participant in a competition. 'Jo played the lottery every day.'  > This FE identifies the second participant in a competition. 'Jo played Leslie at tennis.' > This FE is used for plural NP participants in a competition. 'Jo and Leslie played tennis.' > This FE is used for the name of the competition. 'Jo played in the foosball tournament'


Input:
LUs: играть > исполнить > приниматься
Example: Эта артистка играла  в ряде спектаклей прошлого сезона.
FN Name: Performers_and_roles
FN Core FEs: Audience > Medium > Performance > Performer > Score > Script > Type > Role > Performer1 > Performer2
FN Definition: A Performer has a certain Role in a Performance and plays their part by following the directions in the Script for that particular Role.   'Margaret Thatcher played Juliet in a school play.' '"Pulp Fiction" starred John Travolta and a lot of other big names.' 'Mel Gibson starred in "Braveheart" as the leader of a Scottish rebellion.' 'I play the character of Yusuf in this film.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Audience experiences the Performance. > Medium is the physical entity or channel used by the Performer to transmit the Performance to the Audience. > The Performers generates the Performance which  the Audience perceives. > The Performer provides an experience for the Audience. > The music which may be performed in the Performance, either in isolation or accompanying actions and speech. > The (usually written) directions which instruct the Performers on what actions to perform, when, and how.  It has many different names depending on the Type of Performance including script, screenplay, libretto, book, and choreography. > This FE indicates the subtype of Performance, including dance, theater, film, etc.  > Role identifies one of the possible relations that the Performer can have to the Performance.  The Role (s) a Performer has in the Performance will determine which parts of the Script should be performed by the Performer, as the Script is written in terms of which Role (s) each set of instructions applies to.  In the fields of theater, movies, ballet, and opera, a Role generally corresponds to a character in the story of the Script, while other types of performance may use more general Roles like lead violinist. > The person that performs alongside Performer2. 'He co-starred with Matt Perry in Tool 3.' > The person that is also in the Performance, alongside Performer1. 'Who co-starred with Glen Close in that space opera thingy?'


Input:
LUs: избрать
Example: Вы сделали ошибку, избрав Иванова .
FN Name: Change_of_leadership
FN Core FEs: Selector > Old_leader > New_leader > Role > Old_order > Function > Body
FN Definition: This frame concerns the appointment of a New_leader or removal from office of an Old_leader.  The Selector brings about the change in leadership, for example, by electing or overthrowing a leader. Some words in the frame describe the successful removal from office of a leader (e.g. depose, oust), others simply the attempt (e.g. uprising, rebellion).   'On March 17 , Mamedov appointed Rakhim Gasiyev as Defence Minister .'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Selector (most commonly a group of people) is responsible for a change in leadership.  Typically, it occurs as the External Argument of verbs.  'The voters elected Blair.' 'The president appoints the prime minister.'  > With words denoting removal (or attempted removal) from office of a leader, the Old_leader is typically the direct object of verbs, or occurs in a PP Complement with noun targets, frequently headed by the preposition against.  'The students overthrew the president.' 'The uprising against the king was quickly ended by the military.' > With words denoting appointment to a position, the New_leader is typically the object of verbs.  'The president appoints the prime minister.' > Frequently the Old_leader or New_leader is referred to only by his/her role. However, the Role can be expressed separately from the leader, usually as either a secondary predicate or in a PP Complement.  'The board of directors appointed Ashton Acting President.' 'The board of directors appointed Ashton as Acting President.' 'The voters elected Mitterand to the presidency.' > The FE Old_order identifies the political order that existed before the change of leadership occurs. 'The rebels overthrew the dictatorship.' > The Function is the purpose the New_leader will fufill. > A group of individuals who are elected or appointed to perform some function of governance.  'His district elected her  to Congress three times.'


Input:
LUs: голосовать > избрать > подобрать
Example: Перепробовав с десяток профессий, я избрал профессию повара.
FN Name: Choosing
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Chosen > Possibilities
FN Definition: A Cognizer decides upon the Chosen (either an item or a course of action) out of a set of  Possibilities .  The Cognizer may have an Inherent_purpose or a Larger_purpose for the Chosen.  Often an Explanation, which serves as the basis of the choice, is given.  'The council picked you out of all the pilots available to head this mission.' 'No one would choose to live in such squalor.' 'If no judge was unanimously selected in the previous round, play rock-paper-scissors pairwise. CNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Cognizer chooses the Chosen out of the Possibilities. 'Wehave to pick a colour for the living room.' > Chosen identifies the entity or course of action which is selected from among the Possibilities. 'I decided to give it another try.' 'We have to pick a colour for the living room.' > A Cognizer makes a choice from among a set of Possibilities. Possibilities are commonly expressed via an oblique phrase which indicates the alternative or alternatives, or by a subordinate clause (choosing to do it or choosing not to do it), typically headed by "whether or "if". 'They chose their new guitarist out of more than 300 auditioners.'


Input:
LUs: издать
Example: Книгу издали большим  тиражом.
FN Name: Publishing
FN Core FEs: Publisher > Work > Author
FN Definition: A Publisher makes a Work of an Author (or authors) available to some public Audience for general enjoyment, examination, and reference. The Medium of a Work can vary; examples include books, TV programs, movies, and radio shows. Publication normally involves a number of other events, such as editing and advertising of the Work, and mass production and sales of a represenation of the Work; thus in the most elaborated version of publication, there are a number of other potential roles, such as editor, publicist/advertizer, distributor, printer, etc., but none of these show up as separate, syntactically distinguished roles for the LUs in this frame.  'Doubleday is publishing my newest novel next week.' 'I 'm publishing my next one with Random House .'
FN Core FEs definitions: The entity that acts on behalf of the Author to release the Work to the public. > The creation of the Author that is made public by the Publisher. > The person or entity that is responsible for the detailed construction of the content of the Work.  It is normally expressed in place of the Publisher FE, but the Publisher may cooccur with Author, appearing as an adjunct.  


Input:
LUs: изображать
Example: Автор хотел изобразить разочарованного человека, но в действительности изобразил циника.
FN Name: Create_physical_artwork
FN Core FEs: Creator > Representation
FN Definition: A Creator creates an artifact that is typically an iconic Representation of an actual or imagined entity or event. The Representation may also be evocative of an idea while not based on resemblance.  'Diagrams must be clearly drawn on construction paper. CNI'  'I took his picture and told him that if it came out well I would make him a copy.'  'In about 1305 and 1306 Giotto painted a notable series of 38 frescoes.'
FN Core FEs definitions: An individual or individuals that bring the Representation into existence.  'Supposedly, the artist drew the picture from memory.' > The entity that is created to represent either iconically or abstractly.  'Most of us know where we took a photo but have a harder time remembering the time we took it.'


Input:
LUs: изучить > исследовать
Example: Ученые изучили методами НГК интервал разреза.
FN Name: Studying
FN Core FEs: Teacher > Student > Institution > Subject
FN Definition: A Student enrolls and then remains at an Institution for the purposes of education within a Subject.  They may receive instruction from a particular Teacher at the Institution.  The Place, Time, and Duration of the study may also be specified.  'He spent ten years studying physics at the lycee before he flunked out.'
FN Core FEs definitions: One who instructs a Student in some area of knowledge or skill.  'She studied from him for years.' > One who receives instruction from a Teacher or Institution. > An educational establishment, such as a school or college. > The area of knowledge or skill which is taught  to a Student.  'She studies astrophysics.'


Input:
LUs: информировать
Example: Президент информировал собравшихся , что заседание переносится на неделю.
FN Name: Reporting
FN Core FEs: Informer > Wrongdoer > Authorities > Behavior
FN Definition: In this frame an Informer informs the Authorities of the illegal or otherwise improper Behavior of the Wrongdoer. ' Tony reported Michael to the police for breaking into his car. ' ' The teacher reported the bathroom vandalism. DNI '
FN Core FEs definitions: The Informer reports the activities of the Wrongdoer to the Authorities. > The Wrongdoer has his or her activities reported to the Authorities. > The Authorities are the officials, government or otherwise, who handle misbehavior. > The Behavior is the action or actions for which the Wrongdoer is reported.


Input:
LUs: информировать > подсказать
Example: Метод проточной цитометрии информирует о механизмах клеточного метаболизма.
FN Name: Telling
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Addressee > Message > Topic > Medium
FN Definition: A Speaker addresses an Addressee with a Message, which may be indirectly referred to as a Topic. Instead of (or in addition to) a Speaker, a Medium may also be mentioned.  'I told him about the party.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Speaker is the sentient entity that produces the Message. 'Bill told me that he would come to the party.' > The Addressee receives the Message from the Speaker. > The Message is the communication produced by the Speaker. 'The authorities informed me that my brother had been arrested.' 'I told him a bedtime story.' > The Topic is a general description of the content of the Message. 'Leroy told his mother about his arrest.' > This FE is the Medium in which the Message is expressed.


Input:
LUs: исключить
Example: Троих студентов исключили из университета , двоим объявили выговор.
FN Name: Exclude_member
FN Core FEs: Member > Group > Authority
FN Definition: A former Member of a Group ceases to be a member as a result of the action of an Authority within the Group.  (In directly democratic Groups, the Authority may consist of the Group itself as a voting whole.)  'The priest excommunicated Henry from the church.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who used to belong to a Group.  'I 'm afraid that I was expelled from the Society after they found I endorsed him.' > A set of people standing in a semi-permanent relationship together.  'Giles bemoaned his expulsion from the Future Farmers of America' > An empowered subset of the Group which decides to expel its former Member.  


Input:
LUs: исследовать > проверить > смотреть
Example: Врачи исследовали больного.
FN Name: Scrutiny
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Ground > Medium > Instrument
FN Definition: This frame concerns a Cognizer (a person or other intelligent being) paying close attention to something, the Ground, in order to discover and note its salient characteristics.  The Cognizer may be interested in a particular characteristic or entity, the Phenomenon, that belongs to the Ground or is contained in the Ground (or to ensure that such a property of entity is not present).  Some words in this frame allow alternate expressions of the Groundand the Phenomenon: 'We searched the yard  for my contact lens.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Cognizer pays attention to an entity in order to discover something about it. The FE is normally expressed as an External Argument:  'Leslie examined the glass for cracks.' > The Cognizer pays attention to the Ground, so named because it serves as the background or context for the Phenomenon. This FE can be expressed as an NP Object or as a PP Complement. 'Leslie examined the glass for cracks.' 'Kim searched the woods for mushrooms.' > The Medium is the piece of text or work in which the Cognizer pays attention to an entity in order to discover something about it. The FE is normally expressed as an External Argument:  'Chapter four examined the case for free speech.' > An entity directed by the Cognizer  that interacts with the Ground to accomplish the scrutiny.  'The temperature controller monitored the temperature with a calibrated silicon diode.'


Input:
LUs: купить
Example: Мы покупаем продукты у Елисеева .
FN Name: Commerce_buy
FN Core FEs: Buyer > Goods
FN Definition: These are words describing a basic commercial transaction involving a Buyer and a Seller exchanging Money and Goods, taking the perspective of the Buyer.  The words vary individually in the patterns of frame element realization they allow.  For example, the typical pattern for the verb BUY: Buyer buys Goods from Seller for Money. '' 'Abby bought a car from Robin for $5,000.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Buyer wants the Goods and offers Money to a Seller in exchange for them. 'Jess bought a coat.' 'Lee bought a textbook from Abby.' > The FE Goods is anything (including labor or time, for example) which is exchanged for Money in a transaction.  ' Only one winner purchased the paintings'


Input:
LUs: лишиться
Example: Он лишился имущества.
FN Name: Change_of_quantity_of_possession
FN Core FEs: Owner > Possession
FN Definition: This frame describes a general situation in which an Owner either increases or decreases their amount of a Possession.  The increase or decrease may either be physical or metaphorical. 'The plant lost water as the the temperature increased.' 'Gaining leadership experience is one of the benefits of being a camp counselor. CNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Owner is the entity that contains within itself or controls the Possession. > The Possession is the physical or metaphoric object that increases or decreases in quantity.


Input:
LUs: застать > ловить > попасться
Example: Он ловил горностаев в специальные ловушки.
FN Name: Hunting_success_or_failure
FN Core FEs: Hunter > Food
FN Definition: A Hunter succeeds or fails at capturing his sought-out or tracked Food.  'We bagged six roosters.'  'Bottom trawlers catch fish that live on or near the seafloor.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Hunter is the agent that has successfully obtained Food. > Food is the item obtained by the Hunter.


Input:
LUs: завалить > менять
Example: Всё шло неумолимым своим ходом, меняющим местами великое и низкое.
FN Name: Undergo_change
FN Core FEs: Entity > Final_category > Initial_category
FN Definition: An Entity changes, either in its category membership, its situation, or in terms of the quality of an Attribute. In the first case, where category membership is changing, an Initial_category and a  Final_category may be expressed. In the second case, where a situation as a whole is changing, an Initial_situation and a Final_situation can be present. And in the last case, where some characterization of the Entity is changing, an Initial_quality and a Final_quality can be specified.    'As soon as Tiffany kissed the frog, Tiffany turned into a frog. '  'He chanted and the rock changed shape, becoming a great double bitted axe.'  'The College has changed markedly over the century since it first opened its doors.'  'If I'm understanding you correctly, you want the switchbar color to change whenever the bot says something?'  'My life instantly changed from an empty life, to a life full of joy and purpose.'  'As you can see, the word WALK changed from red to green rather than have a separate lens for each colour.'  'My feet turned to stone.'  'The promise will turn to ashes if progress is not made.'  'The price  changed from $1.26 to $1.27 per pint. DNI'  'At least one relative instruction has changed in size from short to long.'  In some cases, the types of perspective are mixed, so that, e.g., an Initial_quality is mixed with a Final_situation; this is usually considered poor style.  'She went from confused to acting completely confident .'  This frame is often the target domain of motion metaphors, in which the moving Theme corresponds to the  changing Entity, the Source of motion corresponds to the Initial_category, Initial_quality, or Initial_situation and the Goal of motion corresponds to the Final_category, Final_quality, or Final_situation of the Entity.  By correspondence with the complex domain of motion, this metaphor introduces several FEs to the target domain of change, such as an Intermediate_state (etc.) from Path, and Tendency_of_change from Direction.  'The nation was crawling towards oblivion.' 'We were walking past almost reasonable and heading right for what-the-bleep.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The concrete or abstract entity that undergoes a change.   'How pleasing to see that Martha has changed now.' > The type of Entity that results from the change. > The category that the Entity belongs to before it undergoes the change.  'The viccar changed from a professional clergyman into an anti-ecclesiastical activist.'


Input:
LUs: менять
Example: Это меняет дело.
FN Name: Cause_change
FN Core FEs: Agent > Initial_category > Final_category > Final_value > Initial_value > Entity
FN Definition: An Agent or Cause causes an Entity to change, either in its category membership or in terms of the value of an Attribute. In the former case, an Initial_category and a Final_category may be expressed, in the latter case an Initial_value and a Final_value can be specified.  'Our storylines follows the saga outlined by the Ultima Series, but we have modified it in order to make our writing more cohesive.'   'I don't think you can turn that rabbit into a hat.'  'How can a guy that changed his name from Bob Craft to Jack Ass declare anyone defamed his character?'  ' At this juncture, a new development changed the political situation on the island.'  'She had at some time earlier completely changed her clothing and appearance and now stood in front of me dressed like a garden gnome.'  'Hence, when (Hg 0 ) is converted to Hg 2+ , it can be rapidly taken up in rain water, snow, or adsorbed onto small particles' 'Hence, when (Hg 0 ) is converted to Hg 2+ , it can be rapidly taken up in rain water, snow, or adsorbed onto small particles'
FN Core FEs definitions: The sentient entity that effects a change in the Entity.  'The system administrator changed the value from 'KDE' to 'GNOME', and then restarted the system.' > The category of which the Entity is a member before the Agent causes a change.  'Her time with the Healer Craft has changed her from a shy, nervous young girl into a confident (almost) young woman' > The category that the Entity belongs to after it has undergone the change.  'The radical message of the cross transformed Saul of Tarsus and changed him from a persecutor of Christians to a tender believer.' > The value that the Attribute assumes as a result of the change that the Entity is caused to undergo.  'We changed the size from 8 1/2x11 to a larger 11 x 17 and gave it a complete graphical makeover. ' > The value that the Attribute has before the change takes place.  'My dad changed his hair color from red  to blue today.' > The abstract or concrete thing or situation that the Agent causes to change.  'The recent terrorist attacks had changed the political climate.'


Input:
LUs: морщиться > сморщиться
Example: Он морщился от досады.
FN Name: Making_faces
FN Core FEs: Agent > Body_part
FN Definition: An Agent makes a particular facial expression, generally in response to some Internal_cause (generally an emotional state).  Sometimes the Body_part involved in the expression is mentioned in lieu of the Agent.  'His eyes smile, but his lips do not.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual that assumes a particular facial expression. > The particular part of the face that the Agent moves into a facial expression.


Input:
LUs: надеть
Example: Наденьте на ноги туфли .
FN Name: Dressing
FN Core FEs: Wearer > Clothing
FN Definition: A Wearer puts on an item of Clothing, which then occupies the Body_location.  'You didn't have to dress like a pirate to impress me. INI' 'He put on his thickest pair of gloves and then went back out to see if he could move them now. INI' 'Jack put on his watch - on his right wrist, and checked the time.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual that puts Clothing on their body.  > Clothing is used for the item of clothing that the Wearer ends up wearing.


Input:
LUs: наказать > показать
Example: Преступников у нас наказывают по заслугам .
FN Name: Rewards_and_punishments
FN Core FEs: Evaluee > Reason > Agent
FN Definition: An Agent (the punisher or rewarder) performs a Response_action on an Evaluee for a Reason, the Evaluee's actions or beliefs.   Means and Instrument may also be indicated. The goal of the punishment/reward is  to discourage/encourage the actions or beliefs.  Words in this frame presuppose that a judgment of the Evaluee has occurred and that the Evaluee is (or becomes) aware of the judgment.  This judgment was performed by a cognizer which is either the same as the Agent, or, minimally, a representative of the same institution.  'His punishment of the prisoners was too harsh.' 'Her punishment  was too harsh.' 'The penalty for this crime is death. ' 'I believe that this behaviour should be subject to disciplinary action.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Evaluee is the person or thing about whom/which a judgment has made and to whom reward/punishment is dealt. With verbs, the Evaluee is typically expressed as Object. 'The boss rewarded you for your diligence.' > Typically, there is a constituent expressing the Reason for the Agent's judgment. It is usually a 'for'-PP, e.g. 'I punished him for his impudence.'</def-root > > The Agent is the person doing the rewarding or punishing. 'Jake's rewards to his best workers were very generous.'


Input:
LUs: нарушить > подчиняться > соблюдать
Example: Гитлеровцы нарушали международные договоры.
FN Name: Compliance
FN Core FEs: Protagonist > Act > State_of_affairs > Norm
FN Definition: This frame concerns Acts and State_of_Affairs for which Protagonists are responsible and which either follow or violate some set of rules  or Norms. '' 'A lot of people suspect that blocking savers' access to their money violates the new constitution's explicit ban on compulsory loans to the government.'  'Not that by adhering to the subject-before-predicate principle, the translator of the above extract has had to ignore the principle of end-weight.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Protagonist's behavior is in or out of compliance with norms. 'Jo violated the no trespassing law.' > This FE identifies the Act that is judged to be in or out of compliance with the Norms.  'Jo's violation of the no trespassing law came as a surprise.' > A State_of_affairs may violate a law or rule. 'Their pricing policy violated inter-governmental agreements.' > This FE identifies the rules or Norms that ought to guide a person's behavior.  'John violated the law by not paying taxes.'


Input:
LUs: нуждаться
Example: Сталин нуждался мириться.
FN Name: Needing
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Requirement > Dependent > Consequences
FN Definition: The speaker believes that some state of affairs or entity (the Requirement) must be present in order to cause some other dependent state of affairs to occur (the Dependent).  In the typical case, the Cognizer desires the occurrence of the Dependent and so also desires the obtainment or occurrence of the Requirement.  'I need one more bolt. DNI' 'I need one more nail to finish building the cabinet.' 'In order to complete the treaty, the United States will require several more diplomats.' 'He needs everyone to leave his office to finish his work.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Cognizer requires or believes he/she requires the Requirement to hold so that the Dependent will occur. > The entity or state-of-affairs that must be present or obtain in order for the Dependent to obtain. > The state-of-affairs which cannot hold without the Requirement. > An undesirable state-of-affairs that results if the Requirement is not met.  'He needs to focus on his schoolwork, or he's not going to pass the third grade.'


Input:
LUs: обеспечить > предоставить > снабдить
Example: Отец обеспечивал семью всем необходимым, Мы должны обеспечить область семенами .
FN Name: Supply
FN Core FEs: Supplier > Recipient > Theme > Imposed_purpose
FN Definition: A Supplier gives a Theme to a Recipient to fulfill a need or purpose (Imposed_purpose) of the Recipient.   'Habituating the ground nesting chimp groups is done by provisioning them with sugar cane. CNI INI'  'I have equipped my leech troopers with tiny subspace displacement thingummies. INI'   ' She sat down on her bed, carefully folding her clothing and packing it into the small carryall Starfleet had provided her for the journey.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person that begins in possession of the Theme and causes it to be in the possession of the Recipient.  'I approve of your having supplied him with a file of soldiers.'  > The entity that ends up in possession of the Theme.  'VESID also supplied him with an all zone bus pass to help him travel to interviews.' > The object that is given to the Recipient .   'Cromwell merged men from multiple regiments into a single one and provisioned them with red uniforms to replace their former regiment colors. ' > The Recipient's intended purpose for the Theme.  'God gave them the promise of victory and equipped them for the battle.'


Input:
LUs: заниматься > обучить > показать > поправить
Example: Вчерашних крестьян обучали на специальных курсах.
FN Name: Education_teaching
FN Core FEs: Teacher > Student > Institution > Subject > Qualification > Skill > Precept > Fact > Material > Role > Course
FN Definition: This frame contains words referring to teaching and the participants in teaching.  A Student comes to learn either about a Subject; a Skill; a Precept; or a Fact as a result of instruction by a Teacher.  Some of the nouns (schoolmaster, -mistress) in this frame refer to administrative positions and do not take relevant frame elements; these will be moved.    'Dad taught <fex name="">me that if you work hard, you will be OK - no matter what happens. '  'What Our Cat  taught Me  About Marketing!'  'For two years she taught me French'  'Mom and Dad taught me not to bullshit, because it always came back to bite me in the ass, without fail. '  'A young swiss girl up in a swiss chalet taught me how to yodel.'  'Young Murdock later met a blind martial arts master known as Stick, who taught him how to use his augmented senses and trained him as a fighter.'  ' Maria, a woman studying to be a nun is sent from her convent to be the governess of the seven children of a widowed naval captain '  Frame-Element relations:  Several Frame element relations hold in this frame. There is a core-set {Material, Teacher} (possibly also including Institution); these FE's can fill the subject slot of the teach-type verbs. There is another core-set  {Precept, Subject, Skill, Fact, Role} to do with what is learnt. In addition, the FE Qualification may occur with Subject and Role  'My sister is studying for a maths degree    to be a teacher ' 'She's studying maths to be a teacher .'  Phrases expressing Qualification also very often include information about the Subject (see below), which is to be annotated on the second layer.  'Bill is studying for a BS in physics/a maths degree.' 'Bill is studying for a BS in physics/a maths degree.'
FN Core FEs definitions: One who instructs a Student in some area of knowledge or skill. > One who is instructed by a Teacher in skills or knowledge. > An educational establishment, such as a school or college. > The area of knowledge or skill which is taught by a Teacher or to a Student.  'She's a French Teacher' > A formal Qualification such as an academic degree or a certificate for which a student is aiming.   'She's Studying for a Master's degree' 'She's an MA Student'    > An action which the Student is able to perform as a result of instruction.   'Taut with worry, Dad taught us how to drive. ' > A guideline for correct behavior. In most cases, this concerns morally or socially desirable actions.  'My brother taught me not to be mean to guys when I'm not interested in them.' > A piece of information that the Student is informed of by the Teacher.  'When I was two she taught me that a quarter was 25 cents and a dime was 10 cents.' > Educational Material, such as books, tapes, or videos, used by a Teacher or a Student to acquire skills or knowledge.  'All employees have received a booklet INSTRUCTING them on how to report ` anything from unwanted touching and uncalled-for blue jokes to overt demands for sexual favours . "' > A role, typically professional or vocational,  that the Student is meant to be able to fill as a result of their training.  ' When his father died he went to live with an uncle in Ka'u who trained him as a warrior during his teenage years' > FN: a program of lectures or other matter dealing with a subject


Input:
LUs: объяснить > объясняться
Example: Я уже объяснил, что так поступать нельзя.
FN Name: Justifying
FN Core FEs: Agent > Act > State_of_affairs
FN Definition: An Agent has done or omitted to do an Act or is responsible for the obtaining of a State_of_affairs, which a Judge deems to constitute a violation of an obligation or a moral guideline. The Agent gives a Reason why the Act or omission or State_of_affairs was licit despite appearances.  NOTE: There is a consistent metaphorical conception of justifying as defending.  Words in the defending frame can also be used in the justifying frame.  'Kim failed to fully justify his decision.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person or organization that  is held responsible for a prior Act or for a State_of_affairs.  'Smithers  defended his decision by insisting that he had used his best judgment' > An action  for which the Agent is held responsible, frequently one that the Agent has taken themself.  'Kim failed  to fully justify his decision.' > A State_of_affairs that the Agent is held responsible for.  ' The lawyers tried  to justify enormous punitive damages being paid to victims on a first-past-the-post system .'


Input:
LUs: объяснить > показать
Example: Обилие впечатлений объясняет тревогу мальчика.
FN Name: Explaining_the_facts
FN Core FEs: Fact > State_of_affairs > Question
FN Definition: A Question about the reason or cause of a known State_of_affairs is presented as being answered by the existence of a particular Fact.  The exact chain of reasoning, including the answer itself, of which the Fact is a part is not specified.  Contrast this frame with the Evidence frame which casts a Support (a fact) as providing Evidence for, or conclusively proving, the Proposition (another proposed fact). Thus, there is no open question in the Evidence frame.   'Ruby's orange vest marked with the words "service dog" accounts for why the 3-year-old goes along.'  'The nation's history explains why the current conflict succumbs to, and yet simultaneously transcends, the stereotype.'   'Then that I exist is explained by A and B having come together.'   ' Lack of potential for improvement in the immediate future accounts for the low number of returnees into South Ossetia, even for the Ossetian ethnic group.'  'That explains it.'  'Somehow  this explains why Apple is always  the last man to get the technology.'
FN Core FEs definitions: A Fact which can be connected by a chain of reasoning to the State_of_affairs.  'This fact alone explains the Sun/climate anomaly.' > A Fact whose cause is under consideration.  'Do increased proinsulin concentrations explain the excess risk of coronary heart disease in diabetic and prediabetic subjects?' > An open proposition concerning the cause of the State_of_affairs.  'The fact that this remained in Pandora's box explains why men have hope.'  ''


Input:
LUs: обязать > предъявить
Example: Директор обязал всех сотрудников явиться на общее собрание.
FN Name: Imposing_obligation
FN Core FEs: Responsible_party > Duty > Obligator > Situation > Principle
FN Definition: A Duty is imposed on a Responsible_party according to a Principle which regulates how the Responsible_party should respond to a Situation.  The Situation may be expressed metonymically by reference to an Obligator, whose action invokes the Principle.  It is only rarely the case that the Principle and the Situation/Obligator are both expressed overtly.  'They escaped total Soviet invasion and occupation only by entering into a separate agreement that obligated them to military action against the retreating German armies.'  'The lease agreements bound them to make rent payments to Homeowners Rescue.'  'It was also discovered that with out her knowledge, he had committed her to a new TV series and he had already taken an advance on the money.'   'The Generality's invitation to give a conference on the theme obligated me to study Gaudí's work even more.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who must perform the Duty.   'The winning bid committed her to paint an oil portrait for the high bidder.' > The action that the Responsible_party is obligated to perform.  'Had she really said the word which pledged her to marry Horace Holmcroft in a fortnight?' > The Obligator is the person who imposes the Duty on the Responsible_party.   'She pledged him to pay her the money back.' > A state of affairs that results in the Responsible_party being obligated to carry out the Duty in accordance with the Principle.   ' Admitting a genocide was occurring  would have obligated them, based on their signing the December 1948 Convention on the repression of genocide, to do something about it. ' > A regulating idea  (which may be instantiated as a document)  that the Responsible_party is subject to.  'And no law obligated him to talk to the police, let alone the media'


Input:
LUs: ограничить
Example: Они не ограничивали оратора временем.
FN Name: Limiting
FN Core FEs: Agent > Cause > Range_of_options > Characteristic
FN Definition: An Agent or Cause limits a Range_of_options to having a certain Characteristic. The Characteristic may be that only certain types of the Range_of_options may be acceptable, or (in the case of a plural or mass Range_of_options) that only certain cardinalities or quanties are acceptable. Alternatively, the Degree to which the Range_of_options is limited may be mentioned.  'His choices in life have limited his opportunities severely.'  'Treatment was limited to one pill per day. CNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent consciously places limits upon the Range_of_options.  'The military limited building access to key personnel.' > The Cause is a natural occurrence or state-of-affairs that limits the Range_of_options.  'Ongoing rains have limited drivers to a small number of roads.' > The Range_of_options would normally be expected to have a set of possibilites, but is limited by an Agent or Cause to particular subtypes, situations or characteristics.  'The military limited building access to key personnel.' > The Characteristic indicates the subtypes or situations to which the Range_of_options is limited.  'The military limited access to key personnel only.'  'You should limit your meals to three per day at most.'


Input:
LUs: ожидать > предвидеть > предусмотреть > рассчитывать
Example: Я не ожидал увидеть вас здесь .
FN Name: Expectation
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Phenomenon > Topic
FN Definition: Words in this frame have to do with a Cognizer believing that some Phenomenon will take place in the future.  Some words in the frame (e.g. foresee.v) indicate that the Phenomenon is asserted also to be true, while others do not.  'Michael expected Abby to demand examples.' 'From the look on her face Michael expected that she would say she got the job.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This is the person who believes some Phenomenon will take place in the future. It is normally expressed as an External Argument: Pat expects that the Yankees will win the World Series.  > This is what the Cognizer believes will happen in the future. It can be expressed as a Finite Clause Complement, an NP Object, or a VP Complement with or without an NP Object (see General Grammatical Observations):  'Pat expects that the Yankees will win the World Series.' 'Pat expects a big win.' 'Pat expects the Yankees to win the World Series.'  General Grammatical Observations:  Many of the verbs in this frame allow Raising: Pat expects it to rain. In the example above, the word it is grammatically the Object of the target verb expect, but it does not express an FE. Rather, it is merely construed as the External Argument of the verb rain, which heads the VP Complement of the target. In this situation, both the raised consituent it and the VP Complement are marked with the Phenomenon FE, but are marked as separate constituents. That is because the Object can be passivized and therefore not appear adjacent to the VP Complement: It is expected to rain.  > An entity that serves as the focus of a predicted Phenomenon.  'Predictions about stock prices are notoriously undependable.'


Input:
LUs: определить > принять
Example: Куда жить-то определили?.
FN Name: Deciding
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Decision
FN Definition: A Cognizer makes a Decision, which may be about an entity or a course of action.  How (and whether) this frame is distinct from Choosing is currently up for debate.  'Mo decided to quit the program.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Cognizer decides on a course of action.  'Mo decided to quit the program.' > Decision identifies the entity or course of action upon which the Cognizer decides. 'Mo decided to quit the program.' 


Input:
LUs: бесить > беспокоить > возмутить > злить > интересовать > оскорбить > производить > пугать > пугаться > путать > радовать > расстроить > сердиться > смутиться
Example: Петра бесило, что этот тихоня брался советовать.
FN Name: Experiencer_obj
FN Core FEs: Experiencer > Stimulus
FN Definition: Some phenomenon (the Stimulus) provokes a particular emotion in an Experiencer.  'Nightmare on Elm Street scared me silly.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Experiencer reacts emotionally or psychologically to the Stimulus. 'Horror films terrify Edna.' > The Stimulus is the event or entity which brings about the emotional or psychological state of the Experiencer. 'The news greatlyalarms all the women of the village.'


Input:
LUs: беситься > восхищаться > глодать > злиться > надоесть > скучать > сопереживать
Example: Он бесится от упрямства дочери.
FN Name: Emotion_directed
FN Core FEs: Experiencer > Topic > Stimulus > Expressor > State > Event
FN Definition: The adjectives and nouns in this frame describe an Experiencer who is feeling or experiencing a particular emotional response to a Stimulus or about a Topic.  There can also be a Circumstances under which the response occurs or a Reason that the Stimulus evokes the particular response in the Experiencer.  'Mr. Whiskers is upset that there are no more cat treats.' 'The furious parent stormed into the office.' 'Franz gets infuriated at the thought of his ex-wife remarried.' ' She flashed a jubilant smile.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Experiencer is the person or sentient entity that experiences or feels the emotions.  'Nan Ho turned, his extreme agitation unnoticed by the Prince.'  > The Topic is the general area in which the emotion occurs.  It indicates a range of possible Stimulus.  'I was angry about the war.' 'So tell the world, and its boredom about your troubles will heal you.' > The Stimulus is the person, event, or state of affairs that evokes the emotional response in the Experiencer.  'Liz's anger towards Raquel dates back to a charity dinner this year.' 'The feeling the bereaved find most difficult to acknowledge is their anger against the dead person for abandoning them to face the world alone.' 'Jack Smith openly discussed his innermost anguish at being one of only three England players not to kick a ball during finals.' 'David filled her dreams; the ecstasy of their lovemaking, and the pain and bewilderment of his abrupt departure.' > The Frame Element Expressor marks expressions that indicate a body part, gesture or other expression of the Experiencer that reflects his or her emotional state.  They describe a presentation of the experience or emotion denoted by the adjective or noun.  '"Can I help you?" she asked, trying not to let him see the amusement in her blue eyes.' > The State is the abstract noun that describes a more lasting experience by the Experiencer.  '<fex name = "Experiencer">Tracy was in an irritated mood.' > The Event is the occasion or happening that Experiencers in a certain emotional state participate in.  'The end of the film was filled with jubilant scenes.' [Here we know that the scenes are filled with jubilant Experiencers.]


Input:
LUs: бить
Example: Утро; бьет одиннадцать.
FN Name: Sounds
FN Core FEs: Sound_source
FN Definition: This frame is  concerned with the percepts that vibrations which travel through the air or another medium produce in hearing organs. Sounds are a subtype of sensation. In talking about sounds, speakers often provide information about how the sound was produced. A Noisy_event may be mentioned which gives rise to the sound. Alternatively, the sound may be attributed to a Sound_source, which is construed as a point source emitting the sound. A further possible specification of what gives rise to the sound is for speakers to talk about two physical entities coming into contact by motion, resulting in either friction or impact.   Although this frame is defined in terms of a phenomenon of objective reality, many instances of the LUs in this frame are metonymic references to purely psychological phenomena due to a strong metaphorical relationship between external and internal reality. Furthermore, many of the LUs in this frame such as chuckle.n or whimper.n require a perceiver's analysis of a sound rather than being purely descriptive.  'I awoke to the clash of a jackhammer on concrete.'
FN Core FEs definitions: An entity that is construed as a single point source emitting sound.  'He woke up because of the blare of a car horn.'


Input:
LUs: бить > жарить > прижаться > прятаться > радоваться > развернуться > спешить
Example: она била степ.
FN Name: Self_motion
FN Core FEs: Self_mover > Source > Path > Goal > Area > Direction
FN Definition: The Self_mover, a living being, moves under its own direction along a Path. Alternatively or in addition to Path, an Area, Direction, Source, or Goal for the movement may be mentioned.   'She walked along the road for a while.'  Many of the lexical units in this frame can also describe the motion of vehicles (e.g., as external arguments). We treat these as belonging in this frame.   'The cars scooted slowly towards the intersection.'  Self_motion most prototypically involves individuals moving under their own power by means of their bodies. Many words also specify the manner of motion (swim, walk). This frame contains mostly words that fit this prototypical scenario, but the frame itself does not specify whether a separate vehicle is impossible, necessary, or unspecified. Lexical units that involve separate vehicles are associated with FEs that are not appropriate for the more general case of motion, so they are placed in the Operate_vehicle or Ride_vehicle frames (e.g., He drove across the country, She flew to Europe).
FN Core FEs definitions: Self_mover is the living being which moves under its own power. Normally it is expressed as an external argument. 'Fred crawled the narrow passage.' > Source is used for any expression which implies a definite starting-point of motion. In prepositional phrases, the prepositional object expresses the starting point of motion.  With particles, the starting point of motion is understood from context. 'The cat ran out of the house.' 'The cat ran out.' 'The cat ran away.' 'The cat ran off.'  > Path is used for any description of a trajectory of motion which is neither a Source nor a Goal.  This includes "middle of path'' expressions.  'The scouts hiked through the desert.' 'The scouts hiked along the river.' > Goal is used for any expression which tells where the Self_mover ends up as a result of the motion.  'The children skipped into the park.' Some particles imply the existence of a Goal which is understood in the context of utterance. 'The principal walked over and sat down.' 'A dog ran up and licked our hands.' > Area is used for expressions which describe a general area in which motion takes place when the motion is understood to be irregular and not to consist of a single linear path.  Note that this FE should not be used for cases when the same phrase could be used with the same meaning with a non-motion target, since these should be annotated with the Place FE.  'The mouse scurried about.' 'Stop running around the room and sit down!'  > The direction that the Self_mover heads in during the motion.  'You should walk south about a block .' 


Input:
LUs: благодарить
Example: Вы мне очень помогли: благодарю.
FN Name: Judgment_direct_address
FN Core FEs: Communicator > Addressee > Topic > Reason > Medium > Expressor
FN Definition: In this frame, a Communicator judges the Addressee and then communicates that appraisal directly to the Addressee. The judgment is given for a particular Reason or about a particular Topic.  'The principal rebuked the student for cheating on the exam.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Communicator communicates a judgment to the Addressee. > The Addressee is jduged by the Communicator and receives the message of approval or disapproval. > The Topic is the subject on which the Addressee is being judged. 'The teacher scolded the children about their meessy cookie eating.' > The Reason is why the Communicator forms the type of judgment they form. 'The principal rebuked the student for cheating on the exam.' > The Medium identifies the physical or abstract entity in which the judgment is conveyed. > An action or entity under the control of the Communicator that expresses the criticism or praise directed towards the Addressee.  'Though she had killed him so long ago, she could still see his jeering smile.' 


Input:
LUs: блестеть
Example: Слезы блестят в глазах.
FN Name: Location_of_light
FN Core FEs: Figure > Ground > Light
FN Definition: A perceptible Figure shows up against a Ground location due to Light shining on/from it, its salience possibly dependent on a Cause_of_shine.  'The grass glistened with dew.' 'Still glowing from the forge...' 'The oily mud gleamed wetly under his feet.' 'Something was shimmering on the shore.' 'The quartz glowed with a fitful, internal light.' 'The walls glowed in the sun.'  ''   Note that in this last example, the PP 'in the sun' is both the Ground on the primary FE layer and Light on the secondary layer.   '' This frame is similar to the frame Light_movement; however, in Location_of_light, Light is conceived as stationary, while in Light_movement, light is conceived as traveling linearly outward from a light source, via a path, to whatever objects are illuminated. ''  In both of these light-related frames, there is a very consistent metaphorical conception of emotions as shining in eyes or forth from eyes, including the associated pattern of eyes shining with an emotion.  The sense in such cases is that the eyes (or the muscles and features around the eyes) are in such a configuration as to saliently convey an emotion.  In this metaphor, emotion is conceived as a light-source, with the amount of emotion described as amount of light, temporal patterns of intensity of emotion are patterns of light intensity, properties of the Figure which produce the emotion are described in terms of properties of light-producing objects--thus "glinting", associated literally with light on hard, smooth, cold objects like stones, is used to describe the eyes of someone expreriencing a "hard cold" emotion like hatred, while "sparkling", associated with beauty, is used to describe the eyes of someone experiencing a "beautiful" emotion like amusement or excitement.  In both frames, such sentences should be tagged with the metaphor tag to differentiate them from literal sentences like "His eyes glistened with tears."  'Her eyes glinted with hatred.' 'I saw a light in her eyes at the mention of cookies.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The percept which is perceived at a certain Ground location. 'Candlelight sparkled on the silverware.''Her face glistened with sweat.' > The location of the phenomenon.'Hot coals glowed behind the fire grate.' > The Light which is emitted.  In this frame, it is usually incorporated in verbs and adjectives, and is the denotation of many of the nouns. 'The fire glowed.' 'The glint of gold made me blind with greed.'  Occasionally this FE shows up as a full argument:'The chamber glowed with brilliant light.' 


Input:
LUs: бояться > влюбиться > возмутиться > презирать
Example: Бабушка боится отпускать девочку в школу одну.
FN Name: Experiencer_focus
FN Core FEs: Experiencer > Content > Topic > Event
FN Definition: The words in this frame describe an Experiencer's emotions with respect to some Content. A Reason for the emotion may also be expressed.  Although the Content may refer to an actual, current state of affairs, quite often it refers to a general situation which causes the emotion.    ' My enjoyment of the movie was considerably impaired by the seven-foot guy sitting in front of me. ' ' Smithers takes great pleasure in collecting matchboxes.' ' Sergio derives great pleasure  from  smoking.' ' Smoking gives me extreme pleasure.' With certain verbs, the Circumstances can be expressed in a finite clausal or wh- complement which may optionally be preceded by a Null NP Object: 'I hate it when you do that.' Note: This is not how it is currently tagged.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Experiencer experiences the emotion or other internal state. > Content is what the Experiencer's feelings or experiences are directed towards or based upon.  The Content differs from a stimulus because the Content is not construed as being direcly responsible for causing the emotion. ' Everyone loves compliments.' ' Everyone loves being complimented.'  ' His parents despaired of him.' ' John likes that I cook him lunch.' ' I am afraid of spiders.'    > The Topic is the area about which the Experiencer has the particular experience. ' Mr. Whiskers was upset about his cat treats.'  > The Event is the occasion or happening that Experiencers in a certain emotional state participate in. ' It felt pretty awkward to partake in such a nervous ceremony.' Here we know that the ceremony was filled with nervous Experiencers.


Input:
LUs: вешать
Example: Сколько вешать в граммах? Сколько вешать в штуках?.
FN Name: Dimension
FN Core FEs: Dimension > Object > Measurement
FN Definition: This frame concerns  words that express an Object's position on a scale, its Measurement, with respect to some attribute, its Dimension.  Location,  identifying the sub-region of the Object where the Dimension is measured, may also be expressed.  'The tower is 10 feet tall.'   'The  new vase is 5 cm in circumference at the top.'  Adjectives in this frame must appear with a measurement expression like 5 cm.  Note the tagging of  six feet on the GF and PT layers in the following sentence.  'The woman was six feet tall.'  The GF of six feet is Dep and the PT is NP.
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE identifies the Dimension which is measured.  Most LUs in this frame incorporate the Dimension.  'The  new vase is 5 cm in circumference at the top.' > Object identifies the item which is measured along one of its Dimensions.  'The  new vase is 5 cm in circumference at the top.' > Measurement identifies the extent of the Object along the specified Dimension.  'The  new vase is 5 cm in circumference at the top.'


Input:
LUs: владеть
Example: Он в совершенстве владел кинжалом .
FN Name: Expertise
FN Core FEs: Protagonist > Skill > Knowledge > Behavior_product > Focal_participant > Role
FN Definition: This frame concerns people's knowledge or skill in certain domains.  It does not concern acquaintance or familiarity with people. With adjectives as targets in this frame, we annotate on two FE layers. 'FE Layer-1: He is an experienced programmer.' 'FE Layer-2: He is an experienced programmer.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person whose expertise is assessed. > Skill identifies the Protagonist's talent or ability to do things with one's hand or body. > The area of knowledge (as opposed to a practical skill) in which the Protagonist 's experience is assessed. > A  product of behavior that shows the Protagonist's skill or lack of skill.  'A skillful advertising campaign persuaded voters that his opponent was soft on crime.'  > This frame element can only occur in place of a skill expression. It refers to the prototypical patient in an action involving the Protagonist. For instance, in the following sentence  the children are experts at some (contextually given) action such as rolling the hoops.  Some children were quite expert with wooden hoops. > This frame element denotes a role in which the protagonist has developed his expertise.   'His prowess as a surgeon is impressive.'  In many cases, the Role noun secondarily evokes the Skill that is at issue.  


Input:
LUs: добыть > достаться > забить > преодолеть > приобрести > пробить
Example: Директор полгода добывал в Москве  новое оборудование для завода.
FN Name: Getting
FN Core FEs: Recipient > Theme
FN Definition: A Recipient starts off without the Theme in their possession, and then comes to possess it.  Although the Source from which the Theme came is logically necessary, the Recipient and its changing relationship to the Theme is profiled.  'I got two whistles from John.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Recipient indicates the entity that ends up in possession of the Theme. > The Theme is the object that changes possession.


Input:
LUs: встать > присесть
Example: Гости  встают из-за стола.
FN Name: Change_posture
FN Core FEs: Protagonist
FN Definition: A Protagonist changes the overall position and posture of the body.  'Smithers leaned forward to grab the folder on the far side.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual whose posture changes.


Input:
LUs: выдумать > залить
Example: Он выдумал, что  однажды видел в лесу волка.
FN Name: Coming_up_with
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Idea
FN Definition: Words in this frame have to do with a Cognizer creating a new intellectual entity, the Idea. These words are similar to words of physical creation such as build and make, and in some cases may be understood as metaphorically based on such words. However, the Ideas in this frame are predominantly conceptual in nature.  Compare this frame with Achieving_first.  In that frame, the fact that the idea is new to society is emphasized, whereas Coming_up_with refers to an agentive Cognizer using mental effort to figure something out, without any implication of the impact of the idea.  'I 've been trying to come up with a plan .'
FN Core FEs definitions: Cognizer is the person who comes up with or conceptualizes the Invention. It is normally expressed as an External Argument:   Kim devised a new recipe.  > Invention is the intellectual creation of the Cognizer. It is normally expressed as an NP Object, but sometimes as a PP Complement:   'Kim devised a new recipe. '  'Kim came up with a new recipe.'


Input:
LUs: брать > вынести > подхватить
Example: Из опыта  он вынес одно убеждение: ненависть бесплодна.
FN Name: Grasp
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Phenomenon > Faculty
FN Definition: A Cognizer possesses knowledge about the workings, significance, or meaning of an idea or object, which we call Phenomenon, and is able to make predictions about the behavior or  occurrence of the Phenomenon. The Phenomenon may be incorporated into the wider knowledge structure via categorization, which can be indicated by the mention of a Category. The Cognizer may possess knowledge only in part and this may be expressed in a Completeness expression. The Cognizer may also be realized as a cognitive-emotional Faculty that is conceived of as having understanding. Note that the knowledge may have been acquired either from instruction or from the Cognizer's own experimentation, observation, or mental operations.  Words in this frame are frequently used metonymically to denote the transition into the state described above.  'I figured this out last week and now I really understand it.'  'My father failed to comprehend that his explanations were based as much upon faith as mine'  'The draughtsman must fully comprehend what he is drawing'  'Nobody seems to have explained this to her, but finally she understands DNI'  'I realized I had not properly understood my own needs'  'The mind is often unable to comprehend the significance of what it perceives.'  'Our sensations are in some sense to be understood in terms of a set of stimulation levels (spiking frequencies) in the appropriate sensory pathways. CNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The sentient animate being who acquires new knowledge.  'Sue grasped the essentials right away' > A state of affairs or dynamic system whose internal make-up and working the Cognizer comes to assimilate into their knowledge structure.  'You must grasp the complex relationship of all these subjects to each other' > A part  of a person's cognitive-emotional faculties that is said to acquire knowledge.  'My heart grasped that reality immediately.' 'Man has understood something only when he has grasped it with his heart'


Input:
LUs: выписать > переписать > перечислить > писать > получиться
Example: Петр выписал несколько рекомендаций из медицинского справочника, после чего взялся за энциклопедию.
FN Name: Text_creation
FN Core FEs: Author > Text
FN Definition: An Author creates a Text, either written, such as a letter, or spoken, such as a speech,  that contains meaningful linguistic tokens, and may have a particular Addressee in mind.  The Text may include information about its topic, although the latter is not an FE in this frame.  'I penned a letter concerning racism  to Congress.' 'The brothers said not two words to each other.' 'Jot any notes you need below the line in red pen only.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Author produces a particular Text. > The entity which results from the act of writing or speaking. 'Michael wrote a frame description.' ' Cybil wanted to speak those three words.'


Input:
LUs: глядеть > оценить
Example: По-моему, ты глядишь на их дом, как на постоялый двор; нельзя так злоупотреблять гостеприимством людей.
FN Name: Regard
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Evaluee > Judgment
FN Definition: A Cognizer has a Judgment of an Evaluee, expressing how high or low their regard for the Evaluee is.  'What do you think of him as a linguist?' 'She secretly thought well of him for his role in defrocking Mr. Matthews.' 'Please understand, I hold you in the highest regard.' 'My low opinion of him was of long standing.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Cognizer is the one that makes a Judgment. This role is typically expressed as the External Argument (or in a by-PP in passives).  'The boss appreciates you for your diligence.' 'The boss is very appreciative of my work.' > Evaluee is the person or thing that a judgment is made with respect to. With verbs this FE is typically expressed as Object:  'He regarded her poorly.' > A description (from the point of view of the Cognizer) of the position of the Evaluee on a scale of approval.  'I hold him in the highest esteem.'


Input:
LUs: допускать > предотвратить > разрешить
Example: Он никого к себе не допускал.
FN Name: Preventing_or_letting
FN Core FEs: Potential_hindrance > Event > Agent
FN Definition: A Potential_hindrance or an Agent (via their actions) keeps an Event from taking place, or despite the possibility of prevent the Event, do not do so. Lexical units which indicate that the event is not prevented, e.g. allow.v, are marked with the semantic type "Negative".  Some lexical units, like avert and avoid indicate that the Potential_hindrance or Agent would have been affected if the Event occurred.   ' Rain prevented the ball game from taking place.'   ' He could have stopped the riot .'  ' The government narrowly averted a coup . ' 'She allowed more than a few mistakes to happen .' 'Technology has permitted firms to link together more closely.' 'Unlike DOS , Windows lets you get on with something else when sending a fax.' 'Liberalization allows easier entry into particular markets .' 'Mesh allows the water to circulate normally through the aquarium.'  ''  Unlike in the Thwarting frame, the Potential_hindrance or Agent does not directly prevent the actions of an individual, but rather affects the world in such a way that an Event cannot occur.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Potential_hindrance is the force which keeps the Event from happening, or does not. > The Event is prevented from occurring by the Preventing_cause or the Agent. > The Agent is the sentient being which keeps the Event from happening.


Input:
LUs: достигнуть
Example: Сапоги достигали офицеру до колена.
FN Name: Change_position_on_a_scale
FN Core FEs: Attribute > Item > Difference > Final_value > Initial_value > Value_range > Initial_state > Final_state
FN Definition: This frame consists of words that indicate the change of an Item's position on a scale (the Attribute) from a starting point (Initial_value) to an end point (Final_value). The direction (Path) of the movement can be indicated as well as the magnitude of the change (Difference).  The rate of change of the value (Speed) is optionally indicated.  Another scale (Correlate), which the values are correlated with, is indicated if it is not the default correlate (namely, absolute time).  '' The distinction between Attributes and Items is not always an easy one. The clear cases involve the expression of the Attribute in an in-PP.  'Hawke's Bay winery doubled in size last year.'  'The amount you can deduct, then, depends on whether or not the stock has increased in value during the period you have owned it.'  Other clear cases of Attributes involve NP's like size, quality, number, value that denote abstract attributes rather than events or classes of things.   '' The analysis is more complicated when an event-denoting noun phrase occurs as the subject and the sentence has no in-PP. In the simplest cases, where the Attribute is the number of occurrences of the event, the Attribute is usually left implicit, as in exx. 1 and 2, the Attribute below.  '(1)Accidents increased 20% to 345.' '(1--second FE layer)Accidents increased 20% to 345.' '(2) Attacks on civilians decreased over the last 4 months  DNI.'  In cases  like (1), we will tag the Attribute on the second layer below the Final_value label, as that FE makes it clear that the Attribute is simply cardinality. In cases like (2), we tag it as DNI because in context the hearer has to understand a particular Attribute rather than just some or any appropriate Attribute of the Item.  Note that the above pattern can be compared to cases involving tangible Items, where the Attribute may similarly be missing when the incidence or frequency of the Item is specified.  '(3) Woodland birds increasedto their highest level since 1990 DNI.'   A more complicated case involving event-denoting subjects is when the Attribute measured is not the incidence of the type of event specified but rather an Attribute of an event-participant. In (4), it is not the number of times that turbot was caught that has changed but the amount of fish caught.  '(4) Turbot catches increased from around 100 tonnes in the 1960s to around 1,200 tonnes in the mid 1990s.' '(4-second FE layer) Turbot catches increased from around 100 tonnes in the 1960s to around 1,200 tonnes in the mid 1990s.'  (Note the 2nd layer annotation of the Attribute below the Initial_value and Final_value FEs, since they indicate that the Attribute is implicitly weight.)  Similarly, in (5), the report is (in context) about the total monetary value of the gifts, not about the number of donations made.  '(5)Overall Giving by Church Members increased  from 2000 to 2001'  As can be seen from the above examples, we consider the event nouns in uses such as (4) and (5) to also specify Items. Note that in cases like (4), we do not want to treat the subject NP "turbot catches" as an Attribute that includes information about the Item, since it would not make sense to restate (4) as follows:  '*Turbot increased in catches.'  Two more complications arise. First, certain nouns that do not, by their etymology, denote abstract attributes have a second sense in which they do denote an Attribute.  '(6) The population of Smallville increased fourfold to 807.'   Under one reading, (6a), the population could be understood as referring to "the people", in which case the Attribute cardinality is understood as unexpressed, as in (1),  (2), and (3).  The Attribute could be overtly specified:  '(6a) The population of Smallville increased fourfold in size to 807.'  Under another reading, (6b), population is an Attribute that habitats or locations possess. In this case, the whole NP "the population of Smallville" is treated as the Attribute and on the second layer "of Smallville" is tagged as Item.   '(6b) The population of Smallville increased fourfold to 807.' '(6b-second FE layer) The population of Smallville increased fourfold to 807.' Support for the possibility of this second reading comes from the fact that you can also state the facts as in (6c).  '(6c) Smallville increased fourfold in population to 807.'   The last complication is that Initial_value expressions can also function as the subject, which superficially look like expressions of Attribute.  '(7) The 1999 price had increased to $3400 by 2001.' '(7--second layer) The 1999 price had increased to $3400 by 2001.'  There is no Attribute "1999 price" here (though the concept is plausible in certain special statistical contexts where prices are indexed to prices of a particular year). (7) simply reports that the value of the price-Attribute changed from whatever it was in 1999 to the new value of $3400 by 2001. For sentence (7), Attribute would only be indicated as "price" on the 2nd layer.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Attribute is a scalar property that the Item possesses.'Oil rose in price by 2%.' > The entity that has a position on the scale.   'I fear this service will diminish in quality.' > The distance by which an Item changes its position on the scale.'Oil rose in price by 2%.' > The position on the scale where the Item ends up. 'Microsoft shares fell to 7 5/8.' > The initial position on the scale from which the Item moves away. 'Microsoft shares fell from 12 3/8 to 7 5/8.' > A portion of the scale, typically identified by its end points, along which the values of the Attribute fluctuate.  'The patient's temperature fluctuated between 28.5 and 29.5.' > A description that presents the Item's state before the change in the Attribute's value as an independent predication.  'Diesels have increased from having a 20% market share in 1995 to just over 30% in 2004.' > A description that presents the Item's state after  the change in the Attribute's value as an independent predication.  'It was never bad (1 or 2 seizures a year), but this past decade, it has increased to having them 1 day a month and on that 1 day I have 6 or 7 seizures.'


Input:
LUs: дружить
Example: Наши дети дружат между собой.
FN Name: Personal_relationship
FN Core FEs: Partner_1 > Partner_2 > Partners
FN Definition: The words in this frame have to do with people and the personal Relationships they are or can be a part of.  Some of the words denote people engaged in a particular kind of Relationship, others denote the Relationship, yet others the events bringing about or ending the Relationships. Many of the words presuppose an understanding of states and events that must have occurred before another event takes place or before a person can be classified in a certain way. '' 'And of course that drippy boyfriend of hers backed her up.'  'As the happy couple took their places there was a stir and a rising babble behind them.'  'Pattie is living proof that if you live with a man, you discover a lot you didn't know when you were just dating him.'
FN Core FEs definitions: That partner in the Relationship who is realized as the subject of verbs in active form sentences, or of adjectives in predicative uses. 'John is married to Sue.' 'John is Sue's husband.' When the target word is a noun (e.g. mistress, lover, bachelor), that noun is annotated  as Partner_1 and, if there is one, the other member of the Relationship is Partner_2. 'George is a bachelor.' 'George's mistress left the party.' 'George has  a  mistress.' When there is a word other than the target that refers to Partner_1, that word is tagged rather than the target. 'George is Laura's lover.' > That partner in the Relationship who is not expressed as the external argument. 'John is Sue's husband.' 'John is engaged to Joan.' > The joint construal of both Partners in the Relationship. 'John and Sue are married.' 'They are engaged.'


Input:
LUs: дуть
Example: Дул свежий попутный ветер.
FN Name: Motion
FN Core FEs: Theme > Source > Path > Goal > Area > Distance > Direction
FN Definition: Some entity (Theme) starts out in one place (Source) and ends up in some other place (Goal), having covered some space between the two (Path). Alternatively, the Area or Directionin which the Theme moves or the Distance of the movement may be mentioned.  'That kite you see just to the right of his head was moving around pretty fast but the camera seemed to catch it ok.'  'There are several accounts of the stench drifting to shore from the ships in the middle of the river'  'Dust particles floating about made him sneeze uncontrollably.'  'The grill, unsecured, rolled a few feet across the yard.'  'The swarm went away to the end of the hall.'  The frames that inherit the general Motion frame add some elaboration to this simple idea.  Inheriting frames can add Goal-profiling (arrive, reach), Source-profiling (leave, depart), or Path-profiling (traverse, cross), or aspects of the manner of motion (run, jog) or assumptions about the shape-properties, etc., of any of the places involved (insert, extract). A particularly complex area in the vocabulary of Motion is the depiction of the relation of Vehicles to the Theme.  In some cases, no separate Theme is expressed:  'The plane flew over the city.'   In this case, the sentence is annotated in Self_motion.  When the Vehicle is profiled as being operated by a Driver, the sentence is annotated in the Operate_vehicles frame:  'Don't try to fly an F-16 without training!'  This is very similar to the Bringing frame which covers cases where the Vehicle is necessarily involved, but the movement of the Theme (something carried by the Vehicle) is profiled:  'It's scary flying hundreds of people over thousands of miles of ocean every day.'  Some of the same vocabulary is also used to describe the situation where Passengers Ride_vehicle or Operate_vehicle (each of these a perspective on Use_vehicles):  'I flew to Chicago on the red-eye.' 'I flew my plane across the Canadian border'   Finally, there are cases where, despite the use of similar vocabulary, there is no self-propelled Vehicle involved at all:  'The ball flew over the fence.'  This last type is annotated in the simple Motion frame.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Theme is the entity that changes location. Note that it is not necessarily a self-mover. 'The explosion made me move in a hurry.'  > The Source is the location the Theme occupies initially before its change of location.  'The policeman moved away from the door.'  > The Path refers to (a part of) the ground over which the Theme travels  or to a landmark by which the Theme travels.  'Jo moved past Dad into the hall.' > The Goal is the location the Theme ends up in.  'The car moved into the slow lane.' > Area identifies the setting in which the Theme's movement takes place without a specified Path.  'Emily moved restlessly around the room.' > Distance is any expression which characterizes the extent of the Motion.  'The twig floated atop the water for about 100 yards.' > This FE is used for expressions that indicate motion along a line from the deitic center towards a reference point (which may be implicit) that is neither the Goal of the posture change nor a landmark along the way of the moving part of the body.  Often Direction is defined with reference to the canonical orientation of the Protagonist, or the orientation imposed by an implicit observer.


Input:
LUs: жарить > печь
Example: Она поджарила к ужину цыпленка.
FN Name: Cooking_creation
FN Core FEs: Cook > Produced_food
FN Definition: This frame describes food and meal preparation.  A Cook creates a Produced_food from (raw) Ingredients.  The Heating_Instrument and/or the Container may also be specified.  'Caitlin baked some cookies from the pre-packaged dough.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Cook  prepares the Produced_food. 'Drew cooked dinner for his friends.' 'Drew baked an apple pie.'  > The Produced_food is the result of a Cook's efforts. 'Drew prepared dinner for his friends.' 'Drew baked an apple pie for dessert.'


Input:
LUs: жечь
Example: Нестерпимый зной сушил и жег траву .
FN Name: Temperature
FN Core FEs: Entity > Attribute > Temperature > Degree
FN Definition: An Entity has a Temperature characterized by the target.  The Temperature is a value of the temperature Attribute.  'The pan is already too hot to touch.'  'The walk-in was freezing, but it was better than hanging out in the kitchen.' '' Note that in this  frame, the Entity does not experience the temperature, but is merely described as being in a certain externally verifiable state.   Thus 'Open a window; I'm too hot.' is not in frame but rather in Subjective_temperature.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Entity for which the temperature Attribute is under consideration.   'The soup's too hot.'   > The feature of an Entity which is under discussion. > A quantity or other characterization of the Entity's state with respect to the temperature Attribute.  'The skillet had a temperature of 230 F' > A modifier expressing  the deviation of the Temperature from the norm.


Input:
LUs: жечь > разбить
Example: Ароматный напиток  жег мальчику губы .
FN Name: Experience_bodily_harm
FN Core FEs: Body_part > Experiencer
FN Definition: An Experiencer is involved in a bodily injury to a Body_part.  (In some cases, no Body_part need be indicated.)  Often an Injuring_entity on which the Experiencer injures themselves is mentioned. 'I think that I hurt myself pretty bad back there.' 'He smacked his head on the mantel getting up from poking at the fire.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The location on the body of the Experiencer where the bodily injury takes place. 'I cut my finger on the envelope.' > The being or entity that is injured. 'The squirrel abraded its tail as it twitched nervously in the confined space.' 'Then I cut myself on an envelope.'


Input:
LUs: жить
Example: Он жил тихо и умер тихо.
FN Name: Dead_or_alive
FN Core FEs: Protagonist > Figure
FN Definition: A Protagonist is in the dynamic, maintained state of being alive or has exited this state.  'Frank's dead body was apalling.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Protagonist identifies the being or entity that is  dead or alive. 'Frank was dead.'  > This FE identifies the Figure or form being described by the target.  'Frank's dead body was apalling.'


Input:
LUs: заболеть > страдать
Example: В марте 1920 года я заболел от недоедания и от жизни в нетопленом подвале.
FN Name: Medical_conditions
FN Core FEs: Patient > Ailment
FN Definition: Words in this frame name medical conditions or diseases that a patient suffers from, is being treated for, may be cured of, or die of.  The condition or disease may be described in a variety of ways, including the part or area of the body (Body_Part) affected by the condition (e.g. liver cancer, cardiovascular disease), the Cause of the condition (e.g. bacterial meningitis, viral pneumonia), a prominent Symptom of the condition (e.g. asymptomatic stenosis, blue ear disease), the Patient or population (originally) affected by the condition (e.g. bovine tuberculosis, juvenile diabetes), or the (proper) Name used to identify the condition (e.g. Munchausen Syndrome, Lou Gehrig's Disease).  Annotation in this frame is done in respect to the name of the condition or disease.  'John  died of  pancreatic cancer.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE is used for the patient, entity, or population (originally) affected by the condition or illness.  'juvenile diabetes' 'Dutch Elm disease' 'Legionnaire's disease' > FN: Any medical problem.


Input:
LUs: завалить
Example: На экзамене по математике  профессор завалил трех студентов.
FN Name: Success_or_failure
FN Core FEs: Agent
FN Definition: An Agent has attempted to achieve a Goal, and the actual outcome of the Agent's action has been resolved, so that it either specifically matches the Agent's intent (e.g. success) or does not match it (e.g. failure).  'He pulled off his April Fool's Day prank by the barest of margins .' 'Unfortunately, we were n't successful. DNI' 'We failed miserably at getting the gay rights bill passed .'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent makes an attempt to achieve a Goal. 'John managed a feeble smile.' 


Input:
LUs: завесить > охватить
Example: Окна завешены непроницаемым покровом от наших глаз.
FN Name: Eclipse
FN Core FEs: Obstruction > Eclipsed
FN Definition: An Obstruction blocks an Eclipsed entity partially or completely from view. The positions of the Obstruction and the Eclipsed entity are often reported relative to a Vantage_point.  'A small green bulb concealed behind the panel flashed on momentarily .'
FN Core FEs definitions: The entity which blocks the Eclipsed entity from view.  'Wispy clouds shrouded the treetops.' > The entity which is blocked from view.  'The mists obscured the top of the tower.'


Input:
LUs: довериться > зависеть > полагаться
Example: Он очень зависит от своего начальника .
FN Name: Reliance
FN Core FEs: Protagonist > Benefit > Intermediary > Instrument > Purpose > Means
FN Definition: A Protagonist needs a Means action performed for their Benefit.  The relevant Means action is often evoked only by reference to  an Intermediary who performs it. Also, if the Protagonist performs the Means action themselves, the Instrument that they use may be referred to in place of the Means Note that when one of the three interrelated FEs Means, Instrument and Intermediary is realized overtly, the other two are blocked from overt realization as clause-level arguments of the target.''  When the Protagonist is a sentient being, it is implied that they put their trust in the Intermediary to help in the achievement of the Benefit.   The extent to which the Protagonist is dependent on an Intermediary or Instrument can be indicated in a Degree phrase.''  A set of  Circumstances in which the Protagonist's need for the Benefit arises, may also be specified. ''   The difference between the Benefit that the Means action provides and the Purpose that the Protagonist has is very subtle. For our purposes we will assume that one can form a predication from Benefit and Means on the one hand, and Protagonist and Purpose on the other, but that they cannot be intermingled (cf. examples (7) and (8) below). With for-PPs such as in (6) it is not clear which FE they instantiate, Benefit or Purpose. We will arbitrarily call them Benefit''   '(1) I rely on you  to see that my name is not sullied.'  '(2) The system can rely entirely  on coaxial cable or entirely on optical fibre, just as a tree and  branch network can be based on either technology .'  '(3) The Tories had got him into this and he relied  on them to get him out.'  '(4) I knew we could rely on you.  DNI '  '(5) To get the economy moving he will rely on repairing the infrastructure of America'  '(6) Later , when the Northern Ireland Office was established , it relied heavily on it  for the information on which it based security and political activities.'  '(7) She would have to rely on his help to get through the fight in one piece.  --  She got through the fight in one piece/*His help got through the fight in one piece'  '(8) I rely on his help to get me through a long season -- His help got me through a long season/*I got me through a long season '  '(9) We rely on your helping us '   ' (10) You can rely on him when the chips are down to inspire the troops'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person or thing whose needs are served by the Means action.  ' I rely on this walking stick to get me around' > An action or state that the Means action brings about and from which the Protagonist profits.  'He still relies on me to do the head work' > The person or thing that performs a Means action to the Benefit of the Protagonist.  'We rely  on you for feedback and input'  > An object that the Protagonist uses to realize a Benefit.  'I hate having to rely on my car to get where I want to go' > An action or state that the Protagonist wants to bring about.  It is more or less the Benefit viewed in relation to the Protagonist rather than the Means.  'The user will quickly begin to rely on the pills to cope with life pressures.' > An action performed either by the Protagonist or an Intermediary that has a Benefit for  the Protagonist attached to it.   'We rely on your response'


Input:
LUs: загореть > играть
Example: На пляже  загорали дачники.
FN Name: Color
FN Core FEs: Entity > Color
FN Definition: A Color serves as a landmark in color-space, either a point-like landmark (e.g. burnt sienna) or a broader region (e.g. blue).  Especially when the Color designates a broad region in color-space, it may be defined with a specific Type, further specified by comparison to the color of a Comparand, modified by a Color_qualifier, or evaluated with a Descriptor.  All color words are generally used to specify the color of some (physical) Entity. 'I really like that shade of blue.' 'The welts on his side had already turned an angry red.' 'The room was bathed in a soft pink light.' 'They promptly set up a zillion bright vermilion pavilions.' 'His face and hands were brown from a life spent in the bright sun of the fields.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE identifies the Entity described by the Color. 'His jacket was absolutely green.' > A position in color-space, generally used to describe the quality of some Entity.


Input:
LUs: заниматься > прорезаться > родиться
Example: Над лесными окрестностями занималось погожее летнее утро.
FN Name: Process_start
FN Core FEs: 
FN Definition: An Event begins at a certain Time and Place. Reason may also be indicated.  NB:  Refer to Event frame.  'The project began.'
FN Core FEs definitions: 


Input:
LUs: застать
Example: Павел никого не застал дома .
FN Name: Meet_with
FN Core FEs: Party_1 > Party_2
FN Definition: In this frame Party_1 meets with Party_2 at a prearranged Time and Place.  If expressed, Purpose only applies to Party_1.  The Purpose of the meeting is usually discussion over a certain topic. 'I met with my professor to talk about my midterm.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Party_1 is the grammatically more prominent participant in the meeting event.  It can refer to either a single individual or a larger party separate from Party_2 before the meeting. > A grammatically less prominent participant in the meeting event.  It can refer to either a single individual or a larger party separate from Party_1 before the meeting.


Input:
LUs: воздействовать > затронуть > отразить > страдать
Example: Пуля затронула кость.
FN Name: Objective_influence
FN Core FEs: Influencing_entity > Dependent_entity
FN Definition: An Influencing_entity, an Influencing_situation, or an Influencing_variable has an influence on a Dependent_entity, Dependent_situation,  or a Dependent_variable.  ''  Compare to Subjective_influence. Words in Objective_influence are used to make claims about correlations in the world, where words in Subjective_influence are used to explain emotional impacts made on cognizers.   'More and more doctors realise that diet can influence disease.'  'Our subject is the body clock; how it influences our physiology and behaviour and how it interacts with the rhythms in our environment.'  'But it is more likely that a physical restraint influenced the swirling liquids.'  'It claimed, perhaps hollowly, that NT had yet to impact its business.'  'This kind of elementary boo-boo would certainly impact video speed.'
FN Core FEs definitions: A thing or person whose behavior has an effect on an Dependent_entity, Dependent_situation, or Dependent_variable.   ' Much of the acreage in this round is closer to the coastline, and as such has many implications in terms of how it could impact upon fish spawning, local bird life, and even the Ministry of Defence in some cases' > An entity, usually a thing, that is influenced in its behavior by an Influencing_entity or an Influencing_situation.  'The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board regarding the group's activities as they impact on the environment.'


Input:
LUs: звать > призвать
Example: Мать позвала детей с улицы .
FN Name: Contacting
FN Core FEs: Communicator > Addressee > Address > Communication > Topic
FN Definition: A Communicator (whose Location may be indicated) directs a Communication to an Addressee at a particular Address.  Note that no actual successful communicative act is implied, only the successful completion of acts which would establish the communication.  (In other words, Mari can e-mail Jon without Jon ever reading it.) NB:  The Address or Location_of_communicator may be a virtual address, such as an e-mail or telephone number.'Disgruntled voters phoned Congressman Neil at his Washington residence with complaints about the recent increases in corporate welfare.''She tried to call from the payphone down the street.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who uses language in the written or spoken modality to convey a message to another person.'He  wrote to John.' > The person that receives the message from the Communicator.'The company must be able to call  potential customers.'  > This FE is used for a (metaphorical) place in a system of communication where Communicators and Addressees can access the system. 'You can telephone your senator at 555-5555.'  > The information that the Communicator wishes to impart to the Addressee, often to get a particular response. In this frame the Communication is not necessarily received by the Addressee. 'Patients continually call in with questions.' > This is the subject matter to which the message pertains. It is typically expressed as a PP Complement headed by "about". 'Call John about the party.'


Input:
LUs: исполниться
Example: Мальчику исполнилось пять лет.
FN Name: Age
FN Core FEs: Entity > Attribute > Age > Degree > Expressor
FN Definition: An Entity has existed for a length of time, the Age. The Age can be characterized as a value of the age Attribute, or a Degree modifier may express the deviation of the Age from the norm. The Expressor exhibits qualities of the age of the Entity.  'This building is twenty thousand years old.'  'My grandpa is really old'  'Junior is only five weeks old.'  'A cunning oldish voice called out from the crowd.'  'His age was 23 at the time.'  ' People of  age 55 or older should consult their physician. '  'I have a 13-year-old cousin'  'My grandma is old'  There are additional patterns that the LUs in this frame occur in which are not licensed by a particular lexical head but by a construction.  Additionally, there are patterns that evoke this frame without any overt lexical head that are part of this frame.   'She is 45 years of age.' 'Billy  is 13.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Entity for which a particular age is under consideration.   > The feature of an Entity which is a function of the amount of time that the Entity has existed. > A quantity or other characterization of the Entity's age. > A modifier expressing  the deviation of the Age from the norm. > The Frame Element Expressor marks expressions that indicate a body part, gesture or other expression of the Entity that reflect its age.    '"Who's there?" she barked. "Ensign Kim, ma'me," the youngish voice of Voyager's young Harry Kim came over the comm line. "'


Input:
LUs: беречь
Example: Она не умела беречь время .
FN Name: Retaining
FN Core FEs: Agent > Theme
FN Definition: In this frame an Agent continues to possess a Theme for a Duration of time. '' 'In her heart she must retain bitterness against those who had killed him.'  'I kept the iPhone Sally gave me.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who has possession of the Theme.  'At all times the Saxon government held on to its insistently practiced political tradition. ' > The entity which the Agent possesses for a Duration.  'Once you've got a War Bond, hang on to it for the full ten years of its life.'


Input:
LUs: беречься > предупредить
Example: Берегись женщин! Знаю я их! Это — страшный человек, ты его берегись.
FN Name: Warning
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Addressee > Message > Topic > Medium
FN Definition: A Speaker warns an Addressee by giving a Message that describes an undesirable situation that may affect the Addressee. The warning may alternatively be described as about Topic pertaining to the undesirable situation, or issued via a specific Medium.  'Jackson warned me that the weather could change quickly, but I guess I didn't really believe him.'  'We alerted officials about the possibility of containment failure as soon as we realized it could happen.'  'They issued the warning to only those with the highest security clearence. DNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Speaker produces the Message to alert the Addressee as to possible danger.  'Bill warned me that he would come to the party.' > The Addressee receives the warning from the Speaker.  'When did you warn everyone about the virus?' > The Message is the communication produced by the Speaker.  'The authorities warned me that my brother had been arrested.' > The Topic is a general description of the content of the Message.  'Leroy warned his coworkers about the upcoming audit.' > This frame element is the Medium in which the Message is expressed.  'The city will now warn residents in text messages and emails.'


Input:
LUs: бить
Example: Свет сильного фонаря бил раненому прямо в глаза.
FN Name: Light_movement
FN Core FEs: Emitter > Source > Beam > Path > Goal
FN Definition: An Emitter emits a Beam of light from a Source, along a Path, and/or towards a Goal.  Essentially, this frame denotes the (semi-)fictive motion of the the Beam. 'Avoid allowing light to shine into neighbors' gardens.' 'Clear yellow sunlight shone through the window-panes.' 'She thinks the sun shines out of his backside.' '...when the candles shine out.' 'It shines in my eyes. ('It' is both Beam and Emitter, though only one will show up in the display.) ' '...light shines down on the world.' 'The moonlight shone off the fields.' 'The candlelight glinted from pearls and rubies.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE identifies the entity at the Source from which the Beam originates. > The Source is the location the Beam occupies initially before its change of location. > The light that travels from a Source along a Path to a Goal.  'Sunlight gleamed from the water of the bay.' 'Lamplight flickered through the foggy air.' > Path refers to where the Beam travels over or to a landmark the Beam travels by. > Goal is the location the Beam ends up in.


Input:
LUs: браться
Example: Не знаю, откуда взялись у меня силы.
FN Name: Origin
FN Core FEs: Entity > Origin
FN Definition: An Entity began its existence in the context of a Origin, which can be a place,  culture, time period, text, etc.  'The Christian origin of this quote is from Isaiah 22.'  'Dinosaurs originated from Antarctica?'  ''
FN Core FEs definitions: The item whose Origin is under discussion. > The place or culture where the Entity was produced.


Input:
LUs: владеть
Example: Больной уже в течение месяца не владеет ни руками, ни ногами.
FN Name: Control
FN Core FEs: Controlling_entity > Dependent_entity
FN Definition: A Controlling_entity, Controlling_situation, or Controlling_variable control a Dependent_entity, Dependent_situation, or Dependent_variable. The latter, dependent, element or some aspect of it is not just influenced, but determined by the controlling element.  'Can you control the robot?' 'Although you may not be able to control every situation, you can control your reaction.' 'Students do not have control over the temperature of the heating water.' 'Everyone knows that the price of oil controls the price of asphalt.'
FN Core FEs definitions: A thing or person whose behavior controls a Dependent_entity, Dependent_situation, or Dependent_variable.  > An entity, usually a thing, that is influenced in its behavior by a Controlling_entity or an Controlling_situation.


Input:
LUs: вмешаться > перебить > прервать
Example: Но тут вмешалась Елена.
FN Name: Interrupt_process
FN Core FEs: Cause > Process > Actor
FN Definition: A Cause (or associated Actor) causes an ongoing Process to temporarily stop.  'The error interrupted the process.'
FN Core FEs definitions: A force, process, or event that produces the interruption.  'Leaving the page after you've clicked "Download" will interrupt the transfer.' > The Process goes into a paused state due to the Cause or Actor.  'Leaving the page after you've clicked "Download" will interrupt the transfer.' > An entity which participates in a Cause, perhaps volitionally and perhaps not, but effectively causing the interruption.  'In such cases the server will automatically interrupt the process.'


Input:
LUs: встать
Example: Петя встал на учет в военкомате.
FN Name: Recording
FN Core FEs: Agent > Phenomenon > Attribute > Value > Entity
FN Definition: An Agent sets down in permanent form information about the occurrence of a Phenomenon. Alternatively, the Agent records that an Entity had a particular Value for one of its Attributes.  'While visiting in Port Alberni, the day before he was diagnosed, we recorded him to have 14 drinks and go to the bathroom 10 times.'  'William Hickey's death is not recorded. CNI'  'The voter turnout was recorded as over 90 percent. CNI' '...... voter'  'A number of US expressions of alarm presented during those weeks to the Israeli government were registered in the premier's diary. CNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is the sentient entity that creates a permanent record of the Phenomenon.  'Police informed Mr Wong that they recorded the attack as a racial incident.'  > The Phenomenon is the entity or situation in the world of which a Agent becomes aware.   'Adams took some very good advice and meticulously recorded the events that ensued.' > That feature of the Entity which is under discussion.   'When Mohammed was sentenced to death in the Anti-Terrorism Court in Rawalpindi the court recorded his age as  17 or 18.' > The Value of the Entity that is recorded for the specified Attribute.  'In the fiscal year 2000, Nepal's imports from China and Tibet were recorded at 166.6 million dollars.' > An Entity for which the Agent records the Value of an Attribute.  'At the time the Army recorded him as a married resident of the Town of Two Creeks.'


Input:
LUs: выписать > освободить
Example: На третий день его выписали на работу.
FN Name: Firing
FN Core FEs: Employee > Employer > Position > Task
FN Definition: An Employer ends an employment relationship with an Employee.  There is often a Reason given for the action.  'He fired me as annotator for being too slow.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who is let go by their Employer.    'I was just fired yesterday!' > The person (or institution) that end an employment relationship with an Employee.  'Dominic Mallozzi claims United Trust Bank fired him from a job at the bank's Palmer Township branch because he's HIV positive.' > The label given to a particular type of employment.   'Doc Rivers was fired as coach of the Orlando Magic.' > The action that the Employee is relieved from doing for the Employer  .'I was fired from training the new actors.'


Input:
LUs: господствовать
Example: Дом  господствует над местностью.
FN Name: Sidereal_appearance
FN Core FEs: Astronomical_entity
FN Definition: An Astronomical_entity comes into view above the horizon as part of a regular, periodic process of (apparent) motion of the Astronomical_entity across the sky. In the case of the sun, the appearance begins the day.  'Venus rose at 5:23 AM, twenty minutes before the sun which reached the horizon at 5:43 AM.'  'At the time of the new moon, the moon rises at about the same time the sun rises, and it sets at about the same time the sun sets.'  'And, as the sun came up over the trees, it became golden, and then turned again into a silvery path; and the water came alive'  'Each day the sun's rise offers us a new day.'
FN Core FEs definitions: An entity which is periodically visible from the earth's surface.   'Heku left one morning as the sun rose along the plain.'


Input:
LUs: грозить
Example: Самолету грозила авария.
FN Name: Omen
FN Core FEs: Predictive_phenomenon > Future_phenomenon > Outcome
FN Definition: One phenomenon, the Predictive_phenomenon is an indication of the future or current (but still uncertain) existence of another phenomenon, the Future_phenomenon. There is no Cognizer present on the scene, in distinction to the Expectation frame where a Cognizer takes (the equivalent of) Predictive_phenomenon as evidence for (the equivalent of) Future_phenomenon. Many words in this frame also allow a slightly different understanding, whereby Predictive_phenomenon provides clues as to the good or bad Outcome of an expected Future_phenomenon. Instead of Future_phenomenon an Interested_party that will be involved in the Future_phenomenon may be mentioned. In both construals, the two phenomena are asymmetrical and consequently they have no joint syntactic realization.  '  Such potential augurs  well  for the 1990s ' 'Its appearance was an  ill omen. ' 'Cold-blooded words do not necessarily betoken a callous nature.' 'I wish I could say my success  bodes well for him.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Predictive_phenomenon provides evidence for the existence or the nature of the Outcome of Future_phenomenon.  'To achieve so much this year augurs well for the future.' > Future_phenomenon is that phenomenon that is predicted to occur or have a particular quality.  'This move presages a freeze on the granting of new concessions.' > The FE Outcome identifies those expressions that indicate how the Future_phenomenon is expected to turn out based on the evidence of the Predictive_phenomenon.  'It all bodes well for the future.'


Input:
LUs: делать > отрезать > резать
Example: Мы расставались неохотно, но что делать, меня звали к телефону.
FN Name: Separating
FN Core FEs: Whole > Parts > Part_1 > Part_2 > Agent > Cause
FN Definition: These words refer to separating a Whole into Parts, or separating one part from another.  The separation is made by an Agent or Cause and may be made on the basis of some Criterion.   'I divided the class into groups in alphabetical order .'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Whole is a single entity or an aggregate of entities which is separated into Parts.  It is usually the NP Object of a target verb.  'The directors split the company in two.' ' The teacher divided the children into groups. ' > This refers collectively to the Parts resulting from separation of a Whole: 'The directors split the company in two.' 'The teacher divided the children into groups.'  'The teacher separated the children from each other. ' > Part-1 is the first of two Parts mentioned. This is most often the Object of a verb.  'First, separate the yolks from the whites. ' > Part_2 is the second of two Parts mentioned. This is usually a PP Complement. First, 'separate the yolks from the whites. ' > With causative uses of these verbs, an Agent separates or divides something.  The Agent is usually expressed as the External Argument:  'The researcher divided subjects into groups. ' > The Cause is the non-agent that brings about the separation.


Input:
LUs: добавить
Example: Она добавила сливок в кофе.
FN Name: Cause_to_be_included
FN Core FEs: Agent > Existing_member > New_member > Group > Cause
FN Definition: An Agent or Cause makes a New_member part of  Group. The Group may be represented by an individual Existing_member if it implies the existence of a set of members.  'I added a new rock to my collection.' 'He decided he needed to add a red tie to the blue tie in his closet.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is a volitional animate being who causes the New_member to become part of the Group.  'Matt seems to add new work to his flickr most days.' > Something that is already a member of the Group and represents the Group as a whole. > An item that becomes a part of the Group. > The Group is anything that can be conceptualized as a complex collection of parts or ingredients, including through metonymy like containers or locations, which New_members can join.  'The companyincludes philanthropic endeavors in their accomplishments' > An animate or inanimate entity, a force, or event that is responsible for causing a New_member to enter a Group.  'The calls of crows added an eerie aspect to the atmosphere of our date.'


Input:
LUs: дуть
Example: Невесты дули губки.
FN Name: Cause_expansion
FN Core FEs: Agent > Item > Cause
FN Definition: An  Agent or non-human Cause causes an Item to change its physical size.  The Size_change of an Item may be explicitly indicated or characterized in terms of Initial_size and/or Result_size.  In the default case, expansion is along all dimensions, but sometimes the Dimension of expansion is incorporated or made explicit.  'If the design crashes too often, then try lengthening the wings by a few centimeters, to perhaps 30cm total.  CNI INI '   'As the juice churned with natural process of changing into wine, the gas it created would expand the balloon, and when the balloon eventually deflated, it was ready to drink.'
FN Core FEs definitions: With some words in this frame, an Agent who causes the change in size of the Item may be present. The Agent typically occurs as the External Argument of a verb.  'Management expanded the company.'  > The Item is frequently the External Argument of verbs or the NP Object if an Agent is expressed.  'The company expanded.' 'Management expanded the company.'  > The Cause is a non-human entity which brings about the change in size.


Input:
LUs: задержаться > остановить
Example: Возможно, этот луч задержится на день, на два часа, на полчаса.
FN Name: Halt
FN Core FEs: Theme
FN Definition: This frame consists of LUs which denote a Theme ceasing motion.   'Peter stopped immediately and span to see Aeryn frozen where she stood.'  'He stopped at the door, not wanting to see what he knew must be on the other side'  'As Lynn walked through the bedroom on her way to the shower she stopped to look at her sleeping husband'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE identifies Theme whose motion ceases.   'When the kitty was standing beside the slayer's pillow, she stopped to make sure everything was quiet'


Input:
LUs: владеть > отозваться > разрешить
Example: Молодая учительница обнаружила исключительное умение владеть классом .
FN Name: Resolve_problem
FN Core FEs: Agent > Problem > Cause
FN Definition: An Agent resolves an outstanding Problem by finding its solution, explanation, answer, etc.  Alternatively, some non-agentive Cause may resolve the Problem.  The Means, Degree, Time and Place may also be expressed.  'As it turns out, putting all of my eggs in one basket completely solved all of my problems.' 'Students finally worked through all of the difficult problems by working together.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent finds the solution or explanation to the outstanding mystery or Problem.  'If we have not been able to resolve a problem to your satisfaction, please email us.' > The Problem is the predicament or mystery that is resolved.  'Likewise, once the students worked through the problem and obtained their results, their next assignment would be to publish these to the web.' > The Cause is the non-Agentive event or state of affairs that brings about the resolution of the Problem.  'First, the Tripartite Agreement of 1979 actually solved the only significant friction between the two countries.'


Input:
LUs: запомнить > помнить
Example: Я запомнил, что он повернул направо.
FN Name: Remembering_information
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Mental_content
FN Definition: A Cognizer retains facts in memory and is able to retrieve them.  The Mental_content may be presented in clearly propositional form as a finite clause. It may also take the form of an embedded question or be a concealed question in the form of a simple NP.    ' I was impressed that she 'd actually remembered Radish 's name (= what Radish's name is) '    'Oh, and for those who like to continually whinge about how the French are 'surrender monkeys' - remember Napoleon (= who Napoleon was)?'  ' I ca n't remember what  DSP stands for.'  'And Bill can still remember the pattern (= what the pattern is). '  'What do you remember about your grandma?'  '' Notice that this frame is very general. It can be used to talk about detailed reports of past experience.  'I don't know if I lost consciousness for a while. But I remember that I was lying in the middle of the road with people trying to assist me.'  ''  Notice that Mental_content reported within this frame is presented as factive, i.e. as reliable and accurate. Consider the following contrasts:  '1a. I remember her as selfish--but I might be wrong.' '1b. ??I remember that she was selfish--but I might be wrong.'  '2a. Bill remembers her as smarter than she is.' '2b.*Bill remembers that she is smarter than she is.'  The (b) sentences, which belong in this frame, are less acceptable than the (a)-sentences as they suggest  that the Cognizer  takes their memory to be accurate while suggesting at the same time that the memory might be or is inaccurate. In the (a) sentences, which belong to the Remembering_experience frame, there is no contradiction as the remembering is taken to be subjective and not necessarily accurate. '' The concealed question uses with personal names that occur in this frame are not always easy to distinguish from instances of the Remembering_experience frame where a Salient_entity alone is referred to in 3a and 3b, which belong to the Remembering_experience frame, there is no question of identity: remembering here means thinking of one's memories of the relevant person. 3c is different: the hearer is asked whether they know who the person is; it belongs in this frame.  '3a. I remember her fondly' '3b. Please take a moment to remember Caesar and his Family.' '3c. Do you remember Alexander the Great? He was one of history's most prolific conquerors, and he did it all in his twenties.'  '' This frame differs from Remembering_to_do in that this frame is strictly talking about a fact, whereas the Remembering_to_do frame is strictly about tasks which the Cognizer would be expected to do.  Remembering_to_do uses normally occur with infinitival complements.
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who retains and retrieves information.  'I bet Johno can remember the name of the Ramones' drummer.' > Mental_content stored by and accessible to the Cognizer. It may derive from experience or activity or simply from being informed of it.  'Do you remember how to spell cupboard ?'


Input:
LUs: извиниться
Example: Студент извинился за опоздание.
FN Name: Forgiveness
FN Core FEs: Judge > Evaluee > Offense
FN Definition: A Judge refrains from imposing, or demanding a punishment for an Evaluee who has committed an Offense.  'God forgives repentant sinners.' 'Won't you forgive me for keeping it a secret?'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Judge holds the Evaluee responsible for the Offense. > The Evaluee is subject to the judgment of the Judge for having committed the Offense. 'God forgives repentant sinners.' > The Offense is the illicit or unpleasant act committed by the Evaluee. 'Won't you forgive me for keeping it a secret?'


Input:
LUs: менять
Example: Грабитель поменял лошадь на ружье.
FN Name: Exchange
FN Core FEs: Exchanger_1 > Exchanger_2 > Exchangers > Theme_1 > Theme_2 > Themes
FN Definition: Two parties, the Exchangers, each give and receive from the other Themes. The parties are also construable separately as Exchanger_1 and Exchanger_2,  in which case the Themes may be construed separately, too, as Theme_1 and Theme_2.   'They swapped the island with the Neapolitan government of the day for the much smaller Capri.' 'Then the teams swapped their draftees.' 'We exchanged addresses and he told us that next year when we are in Aruba we will visit with his family there. '   ''  Notice that this frame is to be differentiated from the Replacing frame, where there is no notion of trade between two parties and the focus is only on the relationship between two items that successively fulfill a function or participate in a relation.
FN Core FEs definitions: In cases where the Exchangers involved in a conversation are construed as two separate groups with different levels of volitionality or control, this FE identifies the conversational participant with greater semantic and syntactic prominence, as compared with Exchanger_2. That is, Exchanger_1 is generally encoded as Subject, and peripheral FEs that do not make reference to the event itself generally make reference to Exchanger_1. Thus a Purpose (or Means, Depictive, or Manner) is construed to be that of Exchanger_1, not necessarily that of Exchanger_2 or the group of Exchangers as a whole.  > In cases where the Exchangers involved in a conversation are construed as two separate groups with different levels of volitionality or control, Exchanger_2 refers to the semantically and grammatically less prominent group. It is generally encoded within a prepositional phrase (e.g. headed by with). Note that it is possible for a single role to correspond to multiple referents. For example, if the prepositional object in the example below were plural, we would still assign it the single role Exchanger_2.   'The trade with Cuba went exactly as planned. '  > In some sentences both participants are expressed by the Subject, and there is no 'with'-phrase (cf example 1). In sentences like this, the Subject is assigned the FE role Exchangers. In such sentences, the Subject always denotes more than one person, and it is understood that the reciprocal communication takes place between these two (or more) people. The Subject may denote two or more people either through conjunction, as in example 1, or through plurality, as in example 2, or by denoting a group, as in example 3. In each of these cases the FE Exchangers is assigned. Notice that for nouns in the Exchange frame, it is possible for the Exchangers role to be expressed by a prepositional phrase as in example 4.   'Smithers and Kornfeldt traded Pez dispensers.' 'My neighbors swappedlawn mowers .' 'The group exchanged phone numbers.' 'The prisoner exchange between North and South Dakota went bad somehow.'  > The item that begins in the possession of Exchanger_1.   ' I tucked the pistol between my belt and tunic top (how I wish I had kept it, but I later swapped it with a Canadian for some cigarettes.' > The item that begins in the possession of Exchanger_2.  ' The organization bought the property in 1999, then swapped it with the BLM for about 100 parcels in 10 counties ranging in size from one to 920 acres.' > The items which change possession between the Exchangers.  'They swapped guitars.'


Input:
LUs: напасть
Example: Взрослые иногда нападают на детей за самую невинную шалость.
FN Name: Judgment_communication
FN Core FEs: Communicator > Medium > Topic > Evaluee > Expressor > Reason
FN Definition: A Communicator communicates a judgment of an Evaluee to an Addressee.  The judgment may be positive (e.g. praise) or negative (e.g. criticize), and this is indicated by the semantic types Positive and Negative attached to the lexical units.  This frame does not contain words where Evaluee and the Addressee are necessarily the same .  'I commended his handling of the crisis.' 'Gaston denounced him to the committee.' This is distinct from the Judgment frame in that it involves the communication of an evaluation, rather than merely forming and holding a particular evaluation.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Communicator uses language in the written or spoken modality to convey his or her evaluation of the Evaluee to another person.  'Jon belittled Madie to her colleagues.' > Medium identifies the physical or abstract setting in which the evaluation is conveyed.   'Jon belittled Madie over the telephone.' 'The party denounced the General in vehement terms.' 'Mayor Quimby criticized the townspeople in his annual speech.' > Topic identifies the entity to which the proposition or propositions conveyed relate.  'Jon criticized Madie about her managerial style.' > A judgment is made about the Evaluee  With verbs this FE is typically expressed as Object:  'Jon belittled Madie to her colleagues.' > Expressor is the body part or action by a body part that conveys the judgment made by the Communicator.  'She viewed him with a critical gaze.' > Typically, there is a constituent expressing the Reason for the Communicator's judgment. It is usually a for-PP.  'Jon extolled Madie for her efforts.' It can also sometimes be expressed as an as-phrase, when that phrase picks out the reason for the praise or critique. 'The book was ridiculed as an example of all the worst of post-modernism.' For some words, Reason is an obligatory FE. In other words, the FE may be ommitted only when the Reason for the judgment is understood from context, as when it is clear why an Evaluee is being blamed. 'I blame you.DNI '


Input:
LUs: обнаружить > очутиться > предстоять
Example: Женщина обнаружила свое кольцо под диваном .
FN Name: Locating
FN Core FEs: Perceiver > Sought_entity > Location > Ground
FN Definition: A Perceiver determines the Location of a Sought_entity within a Ground.  'Kim found his hat on the far side.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual that determines the Location of the Sought_entity.  'I finally found the peanut underneath the couch cusion.' > The entity that the Perceiver succeeds in finding. > The position of the Sought_entity.  'I found him under the bed.' > The general set of entities that the Perceiver examined in order to find the Sought_entity.  'Sam located the Imperial regal among the coins in his pocket and passed it to the boy.'


Input:
LUs: обязать
Example: Дружба обязывает к откровенности.
FN Name: Being_obligated
FN Core FEs: Responsible_party > Duty
FN Definition: Under some Condition, usually left implicit, a Responsible_party is required to perform some Duty.  If they do not perform the Duty, there may be some undesirable Consequence, which may or may not be stated overtly.  'It is my duty to fight any attack on the Brotherhood .' 'This country has the responsibility to support its citizens' right to express themselves.' 'I am obligated to pay or they'll double the fine.'  NB:  Contrast this frame with Likelihood and Preconditions frames, which involve many of the same lemmas.  Many LUs which might be expected to be found here (should, must, have to) are actually in the Required_event frame. Our analysis is that these LUs do not evoke an obligation directly, although they are frequently used in contexts that are consistent with an understanding of obligation and are pragmatically strengthened to (defeasibly) imply an obligation.
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who must perform the Duty. 'Everyone has the obligation to vote.' > The action that the Responsible_party is obligated to perform. 'My job is to get to the other side of the bridge.'


Input:
LUs: ассоциировать
Example: Я всегда ассоциирую яркие краски с Югом .
FN Name: Evoking
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Phenomenon > Stimulus
FN Definition: Some Stimulus causes a Cognizer to think of a prior Phenomenon due to its perceived similarity.  'I burned down the malt shop where we used to go just because it reminds me of you'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Cognizer is the person who remembers the Phenomenon . > The Phenomenon is the mental content that a Cognizer remembers.  'You remind me of my uncle Jerry' > The entity or situation that causes the Cognizer to think of the Phenomenon.  ' Internationalization conjures up a world of diplomatic exchanges and international agencies in which the interests of ex-colonial and great powers still linger'


Input:
LUs: беречь > охранять
Example: Хорошая хозяйка бережет вещи от моли.
FN Name: Protecting
FN Core FEs: Protection > Danger > Asset
FN Definition: Some Protection prevents a Danger from harming an Asset.  'The rubber on her sneakers protected her from the mud.'  'The coral reefs shielded the coastline from the worst of the waves.'  'A growing number of sustainable farmers are preserving agricultural variety and protecting biodiversity by raising ?heritage? or ?heirloom? varieties.'  'The man responsible for this entire ordeal cowardly shielded himself from justice with the little boy's struggling body.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person, entity, or action that prevents harm to an Asset.  'The tabloid's deal with the woman shielded Schwarzenegger.' > A situation that could damage the Asset.   'Other nations tended to muffle or modulate their occasional annoyance with the country that was their shield against the Soviet threat.' > Something desirable possessed by or directly associated with the Protection which might be lost or damaged.  'Almost 10 years later, that agreement insulated Microsoft from liability on copyright claims over the graphical user interface (GUI).'


Input:
LUs: беречь
Example: Даже самые страшные из них берегли ее в своих душах.
FN Name: Usefulness
FN Core FEs: Entity > Purpose
FN Definition: An Entity aids in the successful completion of a Purpose.  Its Degree of utility may also be expressed. Some of the lexical units  in this frame (e.g. great, good) can only express permanent, generic states of the Entity.  'A box is an ideal storage device.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The item which is useful for some purpose. > The kind of task which is promoted by the use or presence of the Entity.


Input:
LUs: бить > завернуть
Example: Лихорадка  бьет больного.
FN Name: Cause_to_move_in_place
FN Core FEs: Theme > Agent > Bodypart_of_agent > Cause
FN Definition: An Agent causes a Theme to move with respect to a certain Fixed_location, generally with a certain Periodicity, without undergoing unbounded translational motion or significant alteration of configuration/shape. 'Paul shook the remote control frantically.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Theme identifies the object involved in motion. > The Agent performs the intentional act. > This FE identifies the part of the Agent's body being used to manipulate the Theme.   'Kim twirled the glass in his fingers.' > Cause identifies the non-agentive force that causes the motion in place. 'The wind vibrated the string.' 


Input:
LUs: вредить
Example: В победные времена не вредит взглянуть на свои успехи с улыбкой.
FN Name: Damaging
FN Core FEs: Agent > Patient > Cause
FN Definition: An Agent affects a Patient in such a way that the Patient (or some Subregion of the Patient) ends up in a non-canonical state.  Often this non-canonical state is undesirable, and some lexical units (marked with the Negative semantic type) specifically indicate that the Patient is negatively affected.  Some lexical units of this frame indicate by what means the Patient is altered (e.g., scrape.v) and in some cases give some indication of the detailed effect on the Patient (e.g., score.v, chip.v), and in other cases, both are specified (tear.v). For another set of lexical units, the action and its result are much less specified (e.g., damage.v).  Compare this frame with Destroying, Cause_to_fragment, and Render_nonfunctional.  'That idiot just dented my car!' 'Some ne'er-do-wells defaced the Park's wall with spray paint to show their anger at local natural resources allocation policy.' 'Please don't damage the goods.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The conscious entity, generally a person, that performs the intentional action that results in the damage to the Patient. > The entity which is affected by the Agent so that it is damaged. '' > An event which leads to the damage of the Patient.  'The crash dented my car pretty bad.'


Input:
LUs: вынести
Example: Я не могу больше выносить эту боль .
FN Name: Tolerating
FN Core FEs: Experiencer > Content > Topic > State > Event
FN Definition: The words in this frame describe an Experiencer's feelings of tolerating with respect to some Content. A Reason for the toleration may also be expressed.  Although the Content may refer to an actual, current state of affairs, quite often it refers to a general situation which causes the emotion.    ' He could not tolerate the smell of coconut . '
FN Core FEs definitions: The Experiencer experiences tolerance with respect to the Content. > Content is what the Experiencer's feeling of tolerance is directed towards..  The Content differs from a stimulus because the Content is not construed as being direcly responsible for causing the emotion.  ' Everyone must endure some disappointments in life.'  > The Topic is the area about which the Experiencer has the  tolerated experience(s). ' They 're very tolerant about boys' mess in the home and untidiness generally.'  > The State is the abstract noun that describes a more lasting experience by the Experiencer.  'Tracy was in a surprisngly tolerant mood today.' > The Event is the occasion or happening that Experiencers in a certain emotional state participate in. 


Input:
LUs: глядеть
Example: Пойдешь работать, глядишь, бригадиром станешь.
FN Name: Likelihood
FN Core FEs: Hypothetical_event
FN Definition: This frame is concerned with the likelihood of a Hypothetical_event occurring. The Hypothetical_event is its only core frame element.  'It is likely that he'll arrive late.'  Notice that in the case where a noun phrase is the subject of the Support Verb, that NP is also tagged as Hypothetical_event.  'He is likely to arrive late.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The state of affairs or occurrence whose likelihood is assessed. 'Rain is fairly unlikely today, I think.'


Input:
LUs: грызть
Example: Солдат грызёт врага.
FN Name: Grinding
FN Core FEs: Grinding_cause > Grinder > Patient
FN Definition: In this frame a Grinder or Grinding_cause causes a Patient to be broken into smaller pieces.  A Result or Goal can be present.'Bill ground the coffee beans into a fine powder.'
FN Core FEs definitions: An animate or inanimate entity, a force, or event that grinds. Volitionality is not a necessary characteristic. ' The wind ground the leaves into a fine powder. ' > The Grinder breaks the Patient into smaller pieces. > The Patient is the entity which undergoes the change brought about by the Grinder or Grinding_cause.  


Input:
LUs: доверить > поручить
Example: На время своего отсутствия командир доверил заместителю командование дивизией.
FN Name: Trust
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Expressor > Information_source > Information
FN Definition: A Cognizer thinks that the Information given by a particular Source is correct.  The specific Content or Topic of the Information may also be described. '' 'I don't trust this information.'  'Nobody will believe you, and people will think you're scum.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Cognizer is the person who has an opinion about the reliability of a Information_source or the Information from the Information_source.   > An object or action associated with the Cognizer which is so affected by the Cognizer's belief that it reveals the Cognizer's state.  'Her trustworthy eyes revealed that I was in no danger.' > The individual that gives Information to the Cognizer.  'Why should we believe him ?' > The text or speech which the Cognizer has heard and evaluates the truth of.  'America trusted his declaration , to their detriment .'


Input:
LUs: забить > пристать
Example: Дача была уже забита.
FN Name: Attaching
FN Core FEs: Agent > Item > Goal > Connector > Items
FN Definition: The Attaching frame covers two situations: a scene in which somebody causes one thing to be physically connected to something else; or a scene in which somebody causes two things to be connected to each other.  In the first, the frame includes an Agent who attaches an Item to a Goal by manipulating a Connector, creating an asymmetric relationship between the Item and the Goal.  In the second, the Agent attaches two Items to each other, where each serves as a Goal for the other, creating a symmetric relationship between the two Items. In both cases, the  Connector remains to bind the two entities (either Item and Goal, or two Items), without creating a new entity.  'The robber tied Harry to the chair.'  'Make sure you bind his wrists as tightly as possible.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent manipulates an object. Agent typically refers to animate beings, but is also extended to mechanical and other inanimate objects.  It is most frequently expressed as the external argument of verbs. 'The robber tied Harry to the chair.'  > This FE identifies the Item that the Agent attaches to the Goal. 'The robber tied Harry to the chair.' > Goal identifies the location to which an Item is attached. 'The robber tied Harry to the chair.'   > The Connector forms the bond that maintains the Item or Items in a fixed position; it is usually expressed in a with-PP. 'The robber tied Harry to the chair  with a rope.' > This FE identifies the plural Items that are tied together, resulting in their mutual attachment. 'The robber tied Harry's ankles together.'  Notice that when the FE Items occurs, neither Item nor Goal can occur.


Input:
LUs: забросить > пожать > придерживаться
Example: Ветер забрасывает на палубу соленые брызги.
FN Name: Cause_motion
FN Core FEs: Agent > Theme > Source > Path > Goal > Area > Cause > Result > Initial_state
FN Definition: An Agent causes a Theme to move from a Source, along a Path, to a Goal.  Different members of the frame emphasize the trajectory to different degrees, and a given instance of the frame will usually leave some of the Source, Path and/or Goal implicit. The completion of motion is not required (unlike the Placing frame, see below), although individual sentences annotated with this frame may emphasize the Goal.   '' This frame is very broad and contains several different kinds of words that refer to causing motion.  Some words in this frame do not emphasize the Manner/Means of causing the motion (transfer.v, move.v).  For many of the others (cast.v, throw.v, chuck.v, etc.), the Agent has control of the Theme only at the Source of motion, and does not experience overall motion.  For others (e.g. drag.v, push.v, shove.v, etc.) the Agent has control of the Theme throughout the motion; for these words, the Theme is resistant to motion due to some friction with the surface along which they move.    'She threw her shoes into the dryer .' 'The mechanic dragged the jack out from under the car .' 'We will move the sofa out of the room through the french doors, down the stairs, and onto the sidewalk .' '' ''  This frame is used in a very large number of productive metaphors, not all of which can be outlined here.  The most salient types include causing an entity, construed as a Theme, to change state from an initial state (Source) via an intermediate state (Path) to a final state (Goal): 'Hillary was catapulted to stardom and his life has never been the same since . CNI' 'She felt as though flung from health to illness and back by the day , by the hour .' 'Once our parents are dead , we are catapulted into becoming the older generation ourselves . CNI' 'Croquet was pushed out by tennis .' ''  A particularly divergent subtype casts changing someone's intentions as changing their location: 'Democratsforced the Senate into a rare closed door session .' 'He nudged Mrs Thatcher towards acceptance of a unified Germany .' ''  Another subtype is specifically about causing a change in quantity (the Theme) through some sequence of values (Source, Path, and Goal): 'Bonus payments would be handed out for pushing up voting levels CNI .' ''  Another type, with many subtypes, involves causing an action or state (construed as a Theme) to have an effect on another person or location or conceptual domain. In such cases, theGoal is used for the final affected domain, and Source for initial affected domain, Path for an intermediate affected domain, and Distance for degree of difference between original application of the action and final: 'Jake had been hurling these same insults at her now for years' 'One can not press this argument too far .' 'She shoved the thought to the very back of her mind .' 'She flung him a savage little smile .' All of the foregoing metaphorical uses are annotated in this frame and marked "Metaphor", since they seem to be semantically motivated and not lexically idiosyncratic. '' ''  This frame contrasts with the following frames which talk about an Agent changing a Theme's position with respect to a landmark (either Source or Goal): ''  In Placing, the figure (Theme) is profiled as the object, and ends up on the ground (Goal).  The focus is on the final stage of motion, in which the Theme ends up at the Goal, and usually stably remains there. 'Joyce placed the flowers onto the bed.' ''  In Filling, the ground (Goal) is profiled as the object, and the figure (Theme) ends up on the ground (Goal). 'John filled the box with old toys.' ''  In Removing, the figure (Theme) is profiled, and is removed from the ground (Source). 'Jennifer removed the flowers from the bed.' ''  In Emptying, the ground (Source) is profiled and the figure (Theme) is removed from it. 'Jason emptied the box of the old toys .' ''  Words of this frame also differ from the words of the Bringing frame in that they are more general:  either the Agent has a momentary interaction with the Theme that causes its motion, unlike the continuous causation of Bringing, or the Agent continuously acts on the Theme, but there is no supporting object that helps with the motion like the Carrier of the Bringing frame.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is the one whose action causes the motion of a Theme.  The Agent is generally realized as the External Argument.  'Pat threw the china at the wall.' > The FE Theme is generally an NP Object.  'Pat threw the china at the wall.' > The FE Source is the starting point of motion.  'Pat dragged the box out of the cupboard.'</def-root > > The FE Path is any description of a trajectory of motion which is neither a Source nor Goal.  'I pushed the trolley along the street.' > The FE Goal is the point at which the Theme ends up as a result of the motion.  'Kim threw the cat into the garden.' > The FE Area is used for expressions which describe a general area in which motion takes place when the motion is understood to be irregular or not to consist of a single, linear path. Locative setting adjuncts may also be assigned this frame element.  'Kim pushed the lawnmower around the garden.' > Cause marks expressions that indicate some non-intentional, typically non-human, force that causes the Theme to be set in motion.  'The storm tossed the sailor from the boat' > A resultant state that the Theme is in at the end of its motion.  'The fireman dragged the injured driver clear' > A previous state that the Theme was in before the beginning of its motion.  'Paul pulled Fran upright from her sitting position.'


Input:
LUs: забросить
Example: Сын совершенно забросил музыку .
FN Name: Surrendering
FN Core FEs: Fugitive > Authorities
FN Definition: In this frame a Fugitive presents himself or herself to the Authorities to be subject to the criminal process. ' The bank robber surrendered to Berkeley police. ' ' Norte is expected to surrender to police tomorrow on tax fraud charges . '
FN Core FEs definitions: The Fugitive is wanted by the Authorities and turns himself or herself in to the Authorities.  > The Authorities are the officials, government or otherwise, who are in charge of initiating the criminal process.


Input:
LUs: застать > разбить
Example: Войну я застал ребенком .
FN Name: Feeling
FN Core FEs: Experiencer > Emotion > Emotional_state > Evaluation
FN Definition: In this frame an Experiencer experiences an Emotion or is in an Emotional_state. There can also be an Evaluation of the internal experiential state.   'John feels anger towards his mother.'  'Martha feels angry.' 'Dr. Hibbert feels good.' Inalienably possessed aspects of the Experiencer frequently stand in for the Experiencer.  'Her heart felt angry.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Experiencer experiences the Emotion or is in the Emotional_state. 'After two pints, he felt a bit better and Ted arrived.' > The Emotion is the feeling that the Experiencer experiences. 'Patients experience high anxiety levels at time of admission to hospital.' > The Emotional_state is the state the Experiencer is in. 'Her heart was galloping so fast that she felt quite giddy with happiness.'   > The Evaluation is a negative or positive assessment of the Experiencer regarding his or her Emotional_state. 'Max was feeling worse than he'd ever felt in his life.'


Input:
LUs: купить
Example: За сколько же вас купили?.
FN Name: Fall_for
FN Core FEs: Victim > Deception
FN Definition: A Victim comes to have incorrect beliefs as a result of exposure to a Deception. The Deception is necessarily orchestrated by one or more agents, though these are not expressible by the LUs in this frame.  'The public was too clever to fall for the type of propaganda prevalent in London at the time.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Victim has false beliefs as a result of exposure to a Deception.  'Seventeen respected scientists fell for the lie before it was revealed as a hoax.' > The Deception is perceived by the Victim, leading to false beliefs. The Deception, orchestrated by an agent or agents with the intention of deception, may be any misinformation, event, or situation perceived by the Victim.  'Even the smartest person can fall for a cleverly-designed scam.'


Input:
LUs: мыслить > размышлять
Example: Он мыслит логически .
FN Name: Cogitation
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Topic
FN Definition: A person, the Cognizer, thinks about a Topic over a period of time. What is thought about may be a course of action that the person might take, or something more general.  'The men were silently mulling over the proposition of committing an assassination'
FN Core FEs definitions: With a target verb, the Cognizer is usually expressed as an External Argument, with the Topic appearing as an Object NP, a gerundive verbal Complement, or a PP. 'Pat considered a career change.' 'The employees contemplated going on strike.' 'Everyone thought about the game.'  With a target noun, the Cognizer is typically expressed as the External Argument of a support verb, as a possessor, or in a PP. 'The teacher gave some thought to a career change.' 'Your thoughts about art are not relevant.' 'Your application was submitted for consideration by the committee.' > With a target verb, the Topic is usually expressed as an Object NP, a gerundive verbal complement, or a PP. 'Pat considered a career change.' 'The employees contemplated going on strike.' 'Everyone thought about the game.'  With a target noun, the Topic is typically expressed in a PP. 'Your contemplation of a career change is understandable.' 'Your thoughts about art are not relevant.'


Input:
LUs: организовать > переписать > разбить > разработать
Example: Министерство организовало укрупненный совхоз из нескольких разрозненных хозяйств.
FN Name: Intentionally_create
FN Core FEs: Creator > Created_entity
FN Definition: The Creator creates a new entity, the Created_entity, possibly out of Components.  'The Libyans were generating arms for export.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Creator creates a created entity. > This FE identifies the entity that the Agent intentionally creates. 'They were generating grenades for export.'


Input:
LUs: организовать
Example: Профсоюз организовывает трудящихся на борьбу .
FN Name: Collaboration
FN Core FEs: Partner_1 > Partner_2 > Undertaking > Partners
FN Definition: Partner_1 and Partner_2 or a group of Partners  work together in some Undertaking. The Partners are taken to be of equal status even when expressed disjointly.   ' CSTR actively collaborates with the Departments of Artificial Intelligence  and Physics. ' ' Tom and  the American composer Steve Riche have recently collaborated on a piece of elevator music.'
FN Core FEs definitions: When the parties in a collaboration are expressed separately, this Frame Element marks constituents that express the one that is grammatically more prominent, i.e., the one that is the subject of an active clause.  ' Smithers collaborated with Chief Wiggum ' > This Frame element marks constituents expressing the grammatically  less prominent, typically oblique, party in a collaboration.  ' Britain is collaborating with France and West Germany in the development of anti-tank missiles' > This frame element marks constituents that express the project in which the Partners are collaborating.   ' The two artists collaborated on a mosaic.' > This frame element marks expressions that express the parties that work together in an Undertaking.  ' Smithers and Chief Wiggum collaborated well '


Input:
LUs: организовать > планировать
Example: Генеральный штаб организовал оборону города.
FN Name: Making_arrangements
FN Core FEs: Agent > Event > Scheduled_time
FN Definition: An Agent performs a series of unspecified tasks to plan for an Event to take place at a Scheduled_time and Place.  'I've arranged a breakfast meeting for you tomorrow morning with Mr. Huntsberger.'  'Kevin and Beth organized the graduate student conference this year.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who makes arrangements for the Event to take place at a Time and Place.  'Lucy organized a playdate for little Michael and Marcy.' > The incident for which the Agent has made arrangements.  'I've already made vacation arrangements.'  'Josie organized the conference last year.' > The time for which the Agent has arranged the Event.  'I've put together a luncheon for 12:30.'


Input:
LUs: организовать > развернуть
Example: Как ты собираешься организовать свой быт ? Он совершенно не умеет организовать свой отдых.
FN Name: Arranging
FN Core FEs: Agent > Theme > Configuration
FN Definition: An Agent puts a complex Theme into a particular Configuration, which can be a proper order, a correct or suitable sequence, or a spatial position.  'He arranged the elements in the pattern that we now call the periodic table.'  'Try to order them by importance. CNI '
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who causes the Theme to be in a particular Configuration. > An entity that consists of  parts which can be put into a configuration relative to each other and/or relative to their environment. > A state that holds of the Theme or a relation that holds among the constituent parts of the Theme as a result of the arranging action.


Input:
LUs: освободить
Example: Друзья освободили подпольщика из тюрьмы .
FN Name: Releasing_from_custody
FN Core FEs: Authorities > Suspect > Holding_location
FN Definition: The Authorities release a Suspect who has been held under suspicion of having committed a crime.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Authorities are those who have the official authority to release a Suspect.  'The police released the suspect.' > The Suspect is the person released by the Authorities, having been held under suspicion of having committed a crime.  'The police released the suspect.' > The place that the Suspect is no longer confined to.


Input:
LUs: освободить
Example: Освободите арестованному руки.
FN Name: Freeing_from_confinement
FN Core FEs: Agent > Theme > Location_of_confinement
FN Definition: An Agent causes a Theme which was held captive to be free from a Location_of_confinement, against the wishes of the captors.  'Two men disguised as guards sprung a convicted killer from prison last night.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent causes the confinement or captivity  of the Theme to end, against the intentions of the captor.  'Their buddies sprung them from prison.' > The Theme is the person or object which is released by the Agent.  'Unknown individuals freed the suspect.' > The location to which the Theme's motion was formerly inhibited.  'Johnny sprung me from prison and I've never forgiven him since.'  


Input:
LUs: оскорбить > оскробить > призвать
Example: Ты оскорбляешь лучшего друга незаслуженным подозрением.
FN Name: Cause_emotion
FN Core FEs: Agent > Experiencer > Event
FN Definition: An Agent acts to  cause a Experiencer to feel a certain emotion.  'I was so offended by her behaviour towards me.'  'It does not matter if the cartoon is insulting to men.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is the person who's action's cause an emotion in the Experiencer.   > The Experiencer feels an emotion as caused by the Agent.  'You will perhaps be affronted by my frankness' > The Event is the occasion or happening that evokes emotions in the Experiencer. This Event occurs as the direct result of a sentient being's actions.


Input:
LUs: основать
Example: Наша деятельность основана на философии Hitachi Company, мы ставим на первое место дух независимости и профессионального умения .
FN Name: Building
FN Core FEs: Agent > Components > Created_entity
FN Definition: This frame describes assembly or construction actions, where an Agent joins Components together to form a Created_entity, which is profiled, and hence the object of the verb.  'Jack built a new house out of bricks.' 'We glued the airplanes together.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent builds a Created_entity. 'Jack built a new house.'  > This FE identifies the Components that form the Created_entity. 'Jack built  a new house out of old bricks.' > Created_entity identifies the entity that is created in the act of building. 'Jack built a new house.'


Input:
LUs: остановить > отрезать > подавить > прекратить
Example: Рабочий остановил станок.
FN Name: Process_stop
FN Core FEs: Process
FN Definition: A Process stops at a certain Time and Place.  Reason may also be specified.  A Duration may be included in order to indicate the length of the persistence of the Paused-state before action resumes.  NB:  Refer to Process frame. '' 'The strident, static-like hiss ceased abruptly.'  'The use of railway-owned vehicles on aggregates traffic ceased altogether in 1989.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Process which is halting.


Input:
LUs: остановить > отменить > оторваться > подавить > прекратить > присесть
Example: Врачам с большим трудом удалось остановить кровотечение.
FN Name: Activity_stop
FN Core FEs: Agent
FN Definition: An Agent ceases an Activity without completing it. '' 'After the lawsuit, the company stopped producing the once very profitable toy.'  'The rugby club terminated negotiations with Argyll in September 1988.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE identifies Agent that stops the Activity.


Input:
LUs: остаться
Example: Куда ты идешь? Останься, прошу тебя.
FN Name: Temporary_stay
FN Core FEs: Guest > Location > Duration > Host
FN Definition: A Guest stays for a time at a Location, which is not his or her permanent residence, for some Duration. The Location is often the permanent residence of a Host.  'I usually stay with my aunt at her summer house when I go to Seville.'  'For a few days my father lodged at a hotel with a buddy who was a biology student.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Guest remains for a relatively short period of time in the Location.  'Originally, we planned on rooming with our relatives in Reno.' > The Location where the Guest spends a short amount of time.  'Originally we planned on staying at the Hilton.' > The length of time that the Guest remains at the Location.  'My wife and have just returned from a two day stay at Ocean Key.' > The Host is living at the Location on a permanent basis, and is allowing the Guest to stay there.  'You should avoid staying with old college buddies when on business trips.'


Input:
LUs: остаться
Example: Я остался один на всем белом свете .
FN Name: Surviving
FN Core FEs: Survivor > Dangerous_situation
FN Definition: A Survivor manages to avoid being negatively affected, despite encountering a Dangerous_situation. The negative effect is most often death, destruction, or a metaphorical construal of one of these.  'Wilderness Survival: Could You Survive the Wild?'  'More than 400 of the 600 residents rode out the hurricane in Gulfport's 11-story high-rise beachfront facility.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Survivor lives through a Dangerous_situation. > The Dangerous_situation is one in which people are likely or expected to be negatively affected.


Input:
LUs: остаться
Example: Остается только самоубийство.
FN Name: Departing
FN Core FEs: Theme > Source
FN Definition: An object (the Theme) moves away from a Source. The Source may be expressed or it may be understood from context, but its existence is always implied by the departing word itself.   'The plane leaves at seven.DNI.'  'His departure from the dock was delayed by hundreds of tearful farewells.'  'We all exited the room slowly.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This is the object which moves. It may be an entity which moves under its own power, but it need not be. 'The officer left the house.' > All the verbs in this frame express some change of location, away from one place and to another. Any constituent that expresses the initial position of the Theme, before the change of location, is tagged with Source. Often the Source is understood from context. 'The woman left. DNI' 'The woman left the house.''We departed from New York on Friday.' 


Input:
LUs: осуществить
Example: Единственная проблема - в домашних условиях её не осуществить.
FN Name: Execute_plan
FN Core FEs: Plan > Agent > Medium
FN Definition: An Agent acts according to a <em>Plan</em>, carrying it out (or taking steps to carry it out). In some cases, the Agent is a focal participant in the Plan, although a separate Focal_participant may also be mentioned. The Plan may be specified for the Duration for which it is in effect.  'Health authorities say they have put measures into effect in all ports of entry and in centers of provinces.' 'Channing House has recently implemented a new dining program for residents on pureed diets.'  Note: the phrase <em>(put) in effect</em> is in the Being_in_effect frame.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Plan is a goal or purpose that the Agent carries out. > The Agent, often an institution or governmental organization, puts a Plan into effect. The Agent is generally a primary participant in the Plan, but a separate Focal_participant may be specified. > This FE describes the medium through which a plan was executed.  It may occur in the same syntactic position as the Agent. 'The policy will be implemented by a new computer system.'


Input:
LUs: осуществить > попасть > привыкнуть
Example: Но он не осуществил себя как писателя, как художника, упрямо объявляя себя «журналистом», решив просвещать людей и менять мир, чтобы он мог стать счастливее.
FN Name: Becoming
FN Core FEs: Entity
FN Definition: An Entity ends up with some Final_quality--a new fact about the Entity. Alternatively, based on a cluster of changes of characteristics, the Entitynewly meets the conditions for being a member of a Final_category.  'The weather turned cold .' 'You can become a firefighter today !'  This frame should be compared with the Transition_to_state frame, which is more general in allowing arbitrary descriptions of a final situation:  'We ended up telling him to leave .'  There is no way to effectively paraphrase such a sentence in the Becoming frame.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Entity which undergoes a change, newly ending up in the Final_category or taking on a new Final_quality.  'I grow impatient with your insolence.'


Input:
LUs: отказаться
Example: Экспериментатор отказался от попытки вывести засухоустойчивый сорт.
FN Name: Agree_or_refuse_to_act
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Interlocutor > Proposed_action
FN Definition: A Speaker either agrees to or refuses to engage in a Proposed_action, proposed by an Interlocutor. '' 'They agreed to express their outrage with editorials in today's paper.'  'The man's refusal to accept blood severely hampered his treatment after the car accident.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Speaker is the person to whom a particular action has been proposed and who responds to the request or offer made.  > This is the person who proposed the Proposed_action  to the Speaker and to whom the Speaker communicates  their response.  > The Proposed_action is an action that the Speaker would perform if they were to accept or refuse the request or offer.


Input:
LUs: отказаться
Example: Я не откажусь от своих слов .
FN Name: Surrendering_possession
FN Core FEs: Surrenderer > Recipient > Theme
FN Definition: A Surrenderer is compelled to transfer a Theme to a Recipient.  'Shortly after the boy surrendered the gun, the three remaining warriors made a rush for liberty.'  'He finally surrendered the item after cops and Secret Service agents showed up at his home Saturday.'  'D?Augustino yielded the weapon to Herrick.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person compelled to transfer the Theme to the Recipient.   > The entity that ends up in possession of the Theme. > The object that changes possession.


Input:
LUs: открыть > очистить > раздеться
Example: Порыв ветра откинул вуаль и открыл лицо женщины.
FN Name: Undressing
FN Core FEs: Wearer > Clothing
FN Definition: A Wearer removes an item of Clothing from a Body_location (the part of the body that the Clothing is prototypically worn on.)  'Walking on sand is better if you take off your shoes. INI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual who begins the action wearing the Clothing and ends the action without it.  'The suspects had to strip publically and endure several blasts from a firehose.' > The item that the Wearer is initially wearing but then removes.


Input:
LUs: открыть > посвятить
Example: Он ни за что не хотел открыть, кто была эта женщина .
FN Name: Reveal_secret
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Information > Topic > Medium
FN Definition: A Speaker reveals Information that was previously secret to an Addressee. In some cases, the Addressee is expected to keep the Information from other parties. The Information may be damaging to the reputation of the Speaker. Instead of (or in addition to) a Speaker, a Medium may also be mentioned. Likewise, a Topic may be stated instead of Information. Some lexical units in this frame imply that the Addressee has already been confronted with the Information.    'Could it be true that Martin himself was the one who spilled the beans on Pops and Brad's planned wedding? '
FN Core FEs definitions: The Speaker is the sentient entity that reveals  the Information (whether spoken or written).   'Kornfeldt revealed that he had embezzled more than twice the amount his company owned.' > Information identifies the content that the Speaker reveals to the Addressee.  It can be expressed as a clause or as a noun phrase.  'You shouldn't reveal any murders you've been involved in, if you know what I mean.' > The Topic is the subject matter about which the Speaker is speaking. It normally only appears with noun targets, or in special constructions.  'Revelations about the coming of the Christ surfaced in early Mediaeval times.' > Medium is the physical entity or channel used by the Speaker to transmit the statement. 'Kim confided in me over the phone.' 


Input:
LUs: отличаться > разобрать
Example: Он отличается остроумием .
FN Name: Differentiation
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Phenomenon_1 > Phenomenon_2 > Phenomena > Quality
FN Definition: Words in this frame have to do with a Cognizer being aware (or not being aware) of the difference between two Phenomena, which may be expressed jointly or disjointly.      'It is very difficult for people to visually distinguish between living and non-living things from such a great distance .'
FN Core FEs definitions: The cognizer is the person (or other sentient being) who potentially determines that two Phenomena are distinct from each other. It is normally expressed as an External Argument: ' The teacher couldn't distinguish one child from the other. ' > The phenomena that are potentially judged to be different from one another can be expressed as separate constituents. When they are, one is typically expressed as an NP Object, and the other as a PP Complement headed by from: ' The teacher couldn't distinguish Pat from Kim.'  In this case, the phenomenon expressed more prominently as an NP Object is called Phenomenon_1:  'The teacher couldn't distinguish Pat from Kim. ' > See Phenomenon_1, above. The phenomenon expressed less prominently as a PP complement is called Phenomenon_2: 'The teacher couldn't distinguish Pat from Kim. ' > Both phenomena that are potentially judged to be different from one another can be expressed jointly by the same constituent:  'The teacher couldn't distinguish the twins.'  Such constituents are assigned the FE Phenomena. They are always plural, as in the above example, or involve conjunction:  'The teacher couldn't distinguish Pat and Kim. ' > This is a property that is potentially used by the Cognizer to distinguish one phenomenon from another. It is normally expressed as a PP headed by a preposition such as from, by, or on the basis of:  'The coach could distinguish the twins by their hair.' General Grammatical Observations: Verbs in this domain often occur with the modal auxiliary can. 


Input:
LUs: отложить
Example: Он отложил расспросы до более удобного времени.
FN Name: Holding_off_on
FN Core FEs: Agent > Desirable_action > Salient_entity
FN Definition: An Agent decides temporarily not to perform a Desirable_action or not to interact with a Salient_entity.  'I have actually held off on buying some movies by WB because of those damned cases.'  'We held off on reporting this because, by all accounts, the young Oscar-nominee has NOT been offered the role.'  'This meant waiting with dinner until late. CNI'  'I waited with going to him and in retrospect think that that was a mistake.'
FN Core FEs definitions:  The Agent decides not to engage in a Desirable_action for a while or not to interact with a Salient_entity.  'Instead, he held off on a public announcement of his decision for more than a year.'</def-root > > Desirable_action identifies the event or activity in which the Agent does not engage for a while.  'The board also waited with the appointment of seven members to the planning and zoning commission until a policy is set regarding requirements.' > An entity that evokes a contextually inferrable Desirable_action that the Agent is temporarily forgoing.  'I ordered the blackberry cobbler with ice cream for dessert and held off on another pint as the rain kept coming down.'


Input:
LUs: отложить > родиться
Example: Курица  откладывает яйца.
FN Name: Giving_birth
FN Core FEs: Mother > Child > Father > Egg > Parents
FN Definition: A Mother and Father produce a Child or an Egg. 'Betty bore Gerry three intelligent daughters.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Mother is the female creature that produces the Child. 'Betty bore Gerry three intelligent daughters.' > Child identifies the new self-motile creature produced from the Mother and Father. 'Betty bore Gerry three intelligent daughters.' > Father is the male creature that copulates with the Mother, thus  leading to the birth of the Child.  'Betty bore Gerry three intelligent daughters.' > Egg is an immobile object containing an organism that may hatch as a mobile, infant organism.  'Female clownfish lay their eggs around sea anemones' > The Mother and Father expressed together. 'We are going to be having twins!'


Input:
LUs: отозваться
Example: Мальчик отозвался на крик .
FN Name: Communication_response
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Addressee > Message > Topic > Trigger
FN Definition: This frame deals with a Speaker communicating a reply or response, a Message, to some prior communication or action, the Trigger.  '' 'The landlord has not yet replied in writing to the tenant objecting the proposed alterations.DNI'  '"No, I do not agree with you," responded another officer to the CEO. DNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Speaker is the sentient entity that communicates the reply or response. It is expressed as the External Argument of predicative uses of a Target verb or as the Genitive modifier of a Target noun: 'Sue responded to the objection convincingly.' 'Sue gave a convincing response.' 'Sue's response was convincing.'  > This is the person to whom the response is communicated.  When expressed, this FE occurs as the direct object of a Target verb, or in a prepositional phrase introduced by "to": 'Sue answered Bob immediately.' 'Sue responded to Bob immediately.'  > The Message is the FE that identifies the content of what the Speaker is communicating to the Addressee. It can be expressed as a direct quote or a clause.'"I can't help you," Sue answered.''Sue replied that she couldn't help.'  > Topic occurs quite rarely in this frame and usually only as a PP Complement of a noun Target:'My boss still hasn't given me an answer about a promotion.'  > The Trigger is the prior communication or action to which a response is given. It can occur as an NP Object or a PP Complement.'Sue answered the question.''Sue responded to the questionnaire.' 


Input:
LUs: отозваться > оценить
Example: Критика хорошо  отозвалась о новой книге автора .
FN Name: Assessing
FN Core FEs: Assessor > Phenomenon > Feature > Method > Medium
FN Definition: An Assessor examines a Phenomenon to figure out its Value according to some Feature of the Phenomenon.  This Value is a factor in determining the acceptability of the Phenomenon.  In some cases, a Method (implicitly involving an Assessor) is used to determine the Phenomenon's Value.  'Each company is then evaluated for their earning potential. CNI ' 'From the evidence of the pilot studies the risk of damage to the test subjects was rated too high to continue. CNI' 'He weighed his options carefully.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The sentient entity that evaluates the Phenomenon. > The entity whose Value according to a Feature is being measured. > The type of property or feature that the Phenomenon is being judged on.  'You will also be graded on your speed of response . ' > An event or procedure that allows the Assessor to evaluate the Phenomenon.  'The study evaluated the risk of a major quake.' > Medium is the physical entity or channel used by the Assessor to make the assessment.  'This chapter evaluates the far-left's contribution to the environmentalism debate since the '70's .'


Input:
LUs: оторваться > смочь
Example: Листок оторвался от дерева.
FN Name: Successful_action
FN Core FEs: Means > Goal > Instrument > Role
FN Definition: The Means action by which a deprofiled agent (the Protagonist) has attempted to achieve a Goal, is finished and the actual outcome of the Means action has been resolved, so that it either specifically matches the Protagonist's intent (e.g. success) or does not match it (e.g. failure). In an alternative construal, an Instrument stands for the Means action that the deprofiled agent undertakes in order to achieve the Goal.   'Why our bid was successful. DNI' 'Your attempt to unsubscribe was unsuccessful, please try again later. DNI' ' Well I did end up replacing the old co axial cables with new monster ones and it did the trick. DNI' 'The hammer did it, not a scratch or dent in the parts as they came apart DNI.' 'What has failed in Palestine, will fail in Iraq. DNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The action that the agent undertakes to achieve the Goal.  'His daring, almost reckless, move succeeded and he lived to fight another day.' > The Goal is what the agent attempts to achieve by performing the Means action.  'This move succeeded in securing trade concessions and the release of imprisoned American sailors.' >  An entity directed by the agent as part of the Means action in order to accomplish the Goal.  ' All of my usual source books seemed incomplete, but your website did the trick!'  > A participant function of an Instrument or Means in a particular event or in events of a particular kind.  'The machine was successful as a reconnaissance vehicle.'


Input:
LUs: оторваться
Example: Он оторвался от товарищей по университету .
FN Name: Improvement_or_decline
FN Core FEs: Entity
FN Definition: An Entity improves from a less desirable Prior_state to a more desirable Post_state.  (Note that members of this frame marked with the semantic type "Negative" indicate deterioration.)  In most cases the Prior_state and the Post_state are implicit, since the most important fact is simply that the Post_state is better than the Prior_state.  'My typing speed is improving .' 'They have improved in their typing a lot .' 'If you think your whole life is deteriorating , get out your relationship !'
FN Core FEs definitions: The object that undergoes change.  'Improvements in marketing techniques have since rendered it obsolete.'


Input:
LUs: отразить > победить > разбить
Example: Севастопольцы отразили и эту атаку врага.
FN Name: Beat_opponent
FN Core FEs: Winner > Loser
FN Definition: A Winner has victory over an Loser.  'He always beats me at chess.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual or individuals who beat the Loser. > The individual or individuals that get beat by the Winner.


Input:
LUs: отрицать > подтвердить
Example: Это не отрицает и другого, более четкого определения.
FN Name: Affirm_or_deny
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Message > Medium > Topic
FN Definition: A Speaker uses language to affirm or deny the truth of a Message to some Addressee. Instead of (or in addition to) a Speaker, a Medium may also be mentioned. Likewise, a Topic may be stated instead of a Message.   'She affirmed her loyalty to the cause.'  'He denied that he had ever believed in the existence of God.'  'BBC News confirmed the story about the refugees.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Speaker is the sentient entity affirming or denying the truth of the Message (this can be spoken or written). It is normally expressed as the External Argument of the predicative uses of the target word, or as the Genitive modifier of the noun.   'No one believed Evelyn's affirmation that she could speak to ghosts.'  'Evelyn conceded that the ghosts were actually just imaginary friends.'  > The Message identifies the content whose truth the Speaker is affirming or denying. It can be expressed as a clause or as a noun phrase.   'They refute the criticisms that they are only interested in power and money.'  'On Monday my boss confirmed that I was indeed promoted.' > The Medium is the physical entity or channel used by the Speaker to transmit the Message.  > The Topic is the subject matter to which the Message pertains. It is rarely mentioned in constructions with verbal targets, and is much more common with nominal targets, where it is usually expressed as a PP Complement headed by "of" or about".


Input:
LUs: отсутствовать
Example: Жаль, что Вы вчера отсутствовали на собрании .
FN Name: Temporary_leave
FN Core FEs: Person > Activity > Duration
FN Definition: A Person takes leave from his or her routine Activity (such as work or school) for a Duration of time.  The Duration can be any length of time, as long as the absence is temporary.     '' 'The claimant should then submit medical certificates for the duration of their absence from work.INI' '' 'He took three month's leave and went to our world assembly at Caux. DNI' '' 'Negroponte, who is on a two-year leave of absence from MIT, decided to stay on to the end of the present academic year.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who is absent from his or her Activity for a Duration of time.  'During his wife's absence, Linkworth and his mother had another violent argument.'  'Lemaire took a sabbatical from the club.'   > This FE describes the activity or responsiblilities from which the Person is taking a temporary leave.  'Such conditions would be likely to lead to absence from work.' > The amount of time the Person is absent from his or her Activity.  This can also be expressed as a description of a duration, as shown below:  'Dissuaded from resigning, Macmillan took extended leave rather than restrain his public utterances.'  'During her two-year absence Eliza suffered great pangs of homesickness and longing for her children.'


Input:
LUs: оформить
Example: Витрины демонстрационного зала оформляют художники.
FN Name: Abounding_with
FN Core FEs: Theme > Location
FN Definition: A Location is filled or covered with the Theme.  The Location is realized as the External Argument, and the Theme either as PP complement headed by with, in or of.  NB:  This frame does not include uses of adjectives like paved when they merely specify the Type of some location, as in "paved and unpaved roads".  'The waters of the bay teemed with fish.' 'The waters of the bay were teeming with fish.' 'The road was completely covered in mud.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Theme covers or fills the Location.  This FE most frequently occurs in a PP Complement headed by with or in.  'The waters of the bay teemed with fish.'  > Location is the object or area that the Theme fills or covers.  This frame element generally occurs as the External Argument.'The walls crawled with nanite surveillance probes.' 'The picture frame was thickly coated with dust.'  


Input:
LUs: оформить > прописать
Example: Ему оформили жалованье старшего лаборанта.
FN Name: Sign_agreement
FN Core FEs: Signatory > Signature > Agreement
FN Definition: A Signatory signs an Agreement document, thereby taking on a commitment encoded in the Agreement.  '. During this time, 84 countries (including the United States) signed the Protocol.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The signatory of the Agreement.  'Eisenhower signed a treaty  with aliens.' > The entity signifying the identity of the Signatory, resulting from the act of writing on the Agreement document.  'The Attorney General seemingly never put his signature on the agreement.' > The document which encodes the commitment of the Signatory.  'I signed the contract and now the dealership claims they made a mistake, quoted the price too low and now I have to pay them more money. '


Input:
LUs: оценить > рассчитать
Example: Точный смысл этих добавлений я оценил позже.
FN Name: Estimating
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Feature > Value > Item > Estimation > Question
FN Definition: A Cognizer carries out an approximate calculation or considers some Evidence so as to arrive at an approximate Value for some Feature of an Item.   There are two alternative construals. In one, the Feature is presented as a Question about the Item and the Value is conceived as an answer to the Question.  In the second construal,  a fully propositional Estimation by the Cognizer is presented which expresses the result of the Cognizer's approximation.  'Until 1971, dolphin mortality could be estimated only from analyses of vessels ' logbooks -- and the figures are probably underestimates. CNI'  'The UK government estimates that there is sufficient gas in the UK sector to meet UK demand for some 17 to 35 years .'  'The astronomers estimated how much energy was needed to create the cavities by calculating the density, temperature and pressure of the hot gas.'  'The banner is estimated in value at $500. CNI'  'When Congress passed the Medicare bill in late 2003, the Congressional Budget Office estimated its cost at $395 billion over 10 years.'  'We estimated how much we had at around 12 thousand.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual who considers evidence or performs calculations to arrive at an approximation.  'The government estimated the cost of meeting EC water standards at £3-4 billion.' > The feature is a scalar property of the Item.  'In one march from 42 Street down to Washington Square Park, the crowds were estimated in size from 125000 (NYPD estimate) to over 200000 (march organizers).' > The position or area  on the Feature scale that the Cognizer concludes the Item occupies.  'Sotheby 's have estimated its value at $10m-$14m.' > The entity that possesses the Feature whose Value the Cognizer seeks to approximate.  'I estimated the house at about 60-65% full.' >  A proposition expressing the Cognizer's approximation of a Feature's Value.  'At the time they estimated there to be as many as four million to the acre.'  > An open proposition for which the Cognizer seeks to approximate the Value of a variable.  'Then Sandia estimated how many people would die and be injured within the first year due to their radiation exposure.'  ' He estimated the length of his nose at 6 inches but it was only 2 inches.'


Input:
LUs: очистить
Example: Милиция в одну минуту очистила зал от посторонних .
FN Name: Emptying
FN Core FEs: Agent > Theme > Source > Cause
FN Definition: These are words relating to emptying containers and clearing areas of some substance or items. The area or container can appear as the direct object with all these verbs, and is designated  Source because it is the source of motion of the Theme. Corresponding to its nuclear argument status, it is also affected in some crucial way, unlike Source in other frames. Some words in this frame, such as empty, may also occur with Path or Goal expressions, e.g.  'The players emptied the bucket over his head. '
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is the entity that does the emptying.  'Pat cleared the table of dishes.' > The Theme, when overtly expressed, invariably occurs in a PP Complement headed by "of". 'Pat cleared the table of dishes.'  > The Source is the region or container which is emptied of something.  In this frame, the Source occurs as an NP Object. 'Pat cleared the table.'  > The Cause is the non-sentient force which instigates the emptying. 'A basic washing can degrease your workclothes.'


Input:
LUs: ошибаться > поправить > путать
Example: Ученик ошибся в умножении .
FN Name: Correctness
FN Core FEs: Information > Source > Communicative_act > Topic
FN Definition: A particular piece of Information is evaluated for its accuracy.  The Degree of correctness may also be expressed.  The Source of information may also metonymically stand in for the Information.  'Is your reputation at risk due to incorrect information?' 'If your dealership service people make such totally wrong claims, I would be uncomfortable trusting their warranty claims too.' 'All users must verify the correctness of their own information.' 'We found all of his information to be right.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Information matches or does not match the facts of the world.  'That statement is totally incorrect.' > The Source is the agent who holds the correct/incorrect information.   'He is correct' > The event which communicates the Information. > The Topic about which the Source has accurate information.


Input:
LUs: пахать > прикоснуться
Example: Колхозники  уже пашут землю.
FN Name: Impact
FN Core FEs: Impactor > Impactee > Impactors
FN Definition: While in motion, an Impactor makes sudden, forcible contact with the Impactee, or two Impactors both move, mutually making forcible contact.   'The massive metal foot hit the ground with a huge thud.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The entity that hits the Impactee. 'The rock hit the sand with a thump.' > The entity which is hit by the Impactor. 'The rock hit the sand with a thump.' > The multiple entities that collide. 'The car and truck collided at a combined speed of over 100MPH.'


Input:
LUs: пахать
Example: Эта работа настолько тяжелая, что нам приходится пахать день и ночь.
FN Name: Work
FN Core FEs: Agent > Goal > Salient_entity
FN Definition: An Agent expends effort towards achieving a Goal. Alternatively, a Salient_entity involved in the Goal can be expressed in place of a Goal expression.  'In addition, our organization will work on improving accountability in every department.'  'If somebody is working on the pipes of your house and you turn on the faucet hard, you get sand, junk.'  'You could see several students plugging away at the problem.'  'All the young medics worked tirelessly in the blister bunker.' 'All the young medics worked tirelessly in the blister bunker.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent puts effort into reaching Goal. > The Goal is what the Agent expends effort to achieve. > An entity that is centrally involved in the Goal that the Agent is attempting to acheive.


Input:
LUs: пахнуть
Example: Пахнет табаком .
FN Name: Chemical-sense_description
FN Core FEs: Perceptual_source > Sensory_attribute
FN Definition: This  frame covers the descriptions of tastes and smells, and has one main frame element, Source. The frame element Sensory_attribute occurs mainly with the words taste, flavour, and smell.  'The almonds had a bitter taste.' 'The almonds are bitter.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Perceptual_source is used for the entity that is being described. A recipe can stand in for a Perceptual_source which is a kind of food.  > Sensory_attribute is used for words that describe the perception itself. 	 'The almonds had a bitter  taste.' 'The coffee had a pungent smell.'


Input:
LUs: перебить > резать
Example: Спортсмен перебил себе руку .
FN Name: Perception_body
FN Core FEs: Experiencer > Body_part
FN Definition: This frame contains words describing physical experiences that can affect virtually any part of the body. The body part affected is almost always mentioned with these words. It is typically expressed by the noun heading the external argument, and this noun is typically accompanied by a possessive determiner that refers to the possessor of the body part, as in the first example below:  '' 'My head hurts!'  'Nuadu, aching in every bone, had not made a sound.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Experiencer is the being who has a physical experience on some part of his  or her body, or internally. Often information about this frame element is incorporated as a possessive determiner into the constituent expressing the Body Part, in which case it is not tagged separately (from Body Part), as shown below: My legs hurt! Sometimes, however, this frame element is expressed as an External Argument in its own right:  I hurt all over! Here, the phrase all over can be considered a kind of generalized Body Part expression, and the pronoun I expresses the Experiencer independently. With nouns and adjectives in this frame, the separate expression of the Experiencer is more common: I have a pain in my leg.  > This FE is the location on the body where the physical experience takes place, typically expressed as External Argument, often as PP complement: My legs are a little sore. I'm a little sore in my legs. 


Input:
LUs: перебить
Example: Пора уже перебить это кресло, обивка вся в дырах.
FN Name: Rejuvenation
FN Core FEs: Entity > Agent > Cause
FN Definition: The action of an Agent or the occurrence of a Cause event returns an Entity to an earlier  state of vigor and strength.  'Falling prices and wireless connectivity have breathed new life into the PDA market. '   'While Paul Reubens resuscitates his career, Pee-wee fans use the Web to keep the 'adventure' alive.'   'Athens' democracy was unexpectedly reinvigorated by its great defeat.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The concrete or abstract thing that is brought into an earlier state in which it was more effective and powerful.  'The reinvigoration of the tourism economy is recognised by many as an ambitious but necessary objective.' > The Agent puts the Entity into a state of renewed vigor.  'We revitalized the Golden Mountaineer Card, and we gave seniors a prescription drug benefit.' > An event or state whose occurrence brings about the Entity's return to a vigorous state.  'Rock has been rejuvenated creatively and commercially by hip-hop-inspired rock acts.'


Input:
LUs: перечислить
Example: Кассир перечисляет деньги преподавателям.
FN Name: Commerce_money-transfer
FN Core FEs: Buyer > Goods > Money > Seller > Exchangers
FN Definition: The subframe of the Commercial_transaction frame which involves the transfer of Money from the Buyer to the Seller (in exchange for the Goods).
FN Core FEs definitions: The Buyer wants the Goods and offers Money to a Seller in exchange for them. 'Jess bought a coat.' 'Lee sold a textbook to Abby.' > The FE Goods is anything (including labor or time, for example) which is exchanged for Money in a transaction.  'Kim bought the sweater.' 'Kim sold the sweater.' > Money is the thing given in exchange for Goods in a transaction. 'Pat paid 14 dollars for a movie ticket.' 'Sam sold the car for $12,000.' > The Seller has possession of the Goods and exchanges them for Money from a Buyer. > The individuals participating in the commercial exchange, otherwise encoded as Buyer and Seller.  


Input:
LUs: петь > прокричать > пропеть > прорезаться > протянуть
Example: Он пел старую народную песню.
FN Name: Communication_manner
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Addressee > Message > Topic
FN Definition: The words in this frame describe Manners of verbal communication.  All of them can occur with quoted expressions.   'He slurred his confession.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Speaker is the sentient entity that produces a Message or communicates about a Topic. It is expressed as the External Argument of verbs:  'The boy mumbled an apology. ' > Addressee is the person to whom the Speaker  is communicating.  When expressed, the Addressee occurs as a PP Complement:   'The taxi driver chattered away to me about gardening. ' > Message is the content which is communicated by the Speaker. The Message may be a direct quote, a finite complement clause or an NP Object:  '"I- It was an accident," Jo stammered.' ' Jo stammered that it was an accident.' ' Jo stammered an apology. ' > Topic is the subject matter of the communicated Message.  It is normally expressed as a PP Complement headed by about and, in this frame, is frequently preceded by a quantificational noun which is treated as referring to the Message:  'The actor chattered about the difficulties of being famous.' 'The person next to me muttered something about pride coming before a fall. '


Input:
LUs: петь
Example: Душа поет в нем.
FN Name: Emotions_of_mental_activity
FN Core FEs: Experiencer > Stimulus
FN Definition: An Experiencer can be described as having an emotion as induced by a Stimulus.  'The children enjoyed noise games and sing-songs.'  'The pleasures of eating are fleeting.'   'Diners delight in counter culture cuisine.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Experiencer is the person or sentient entity that experiences or feels the emotions.    > The Stimulus is the person, event, or state of affairs that evokes the emotional response in the Experiencer.    


Input:
LUs: печь
Example: Страшно пекло.
FN Name: Apply_heat
FN Core FEs: Cook > Heating_instrument > Food > Temperature_setting > Container
FN Definition: A Cook applies heat to Food, where the Temperature_setting of the heat and Duration of application may be specified.  A Heating_instrument, generally indicated by a locative phrase, may also be expressed. Some cooking methods involve the use of a Medium (e.g. milk or water) by which heat is transferred to the Food.  A less semantically prominent Food or Cook is marked Co-participant.   'Sally fried an egg in butter.' 'Sally fried an egg in a teflon pan.' 'Ellen fried the eggs with chopped tomatoes and garlic.'  This frame differs from Cooking_creation in focusing on the process of handling the ingredients, rather than the edible entity that results from the process.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Cook applies heat to the Food.'Drew sauteed the garlic in butter.'  > This FE identifes the entity that  directly supplies heat to the Food.  'Jim browned the roast in the oven.'  This FE will take precedence over Container when both are expressed in the same constituent.  For example:  'Kate cooked the rice in a rice-cooker.' > Food is the entity to which heat is applied by the Cook.'Suzy usually steams the broccoli.'In instructional imperatives, this FE, which would be used for the (missing) object, is tagged CNI:'Cook on low heat for two hours.CNI' > This FE identifies the Temperature_setting of the Heating_instrument for the Food.  'He baked the cookies at 350 degrees for 11 minutes.' 'She microwaved the popcorn on high.' 'You can't cook popcorn on low heat!' > The Container holds the Food to which heat is applied.'Boil the potatoes in a medium-sized pan.'Things that apply the heat directly are Heating_Instruments, e.g. crock-pot, electric skillet.


Input:
LUs: пить
Example: Олег пил с горя .
FN Name: Addiction
FN Core FEs: Addict > Addictant
FN Definition: This frame concerns an Addict's physiological or psychological compulsive dependence on an Addictant, the substance or behavior to which the Addict is addicted. '' 'Although she was never a big fan of drugs, she became hooked on that designer drug instantly.'  'He is a cocaine addict.'  'There are some cocaine addicts living in the house across the street.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Addict is physiologically or psychologically dependent on a substance or a behavior. > Addictant is the substance or behavior to which the Addict is dependent.'Pat defeated her heroin addiction.'


Input:
LUs: греметь > плакать
Example: -- Кис-кис!-- плакала Зайка от страха.
FN Name: Communication_noise
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Message > Topic > Voice
FN Definition: This frame contains words for types of noise which can be used to characterize verbal communication.  It inherits from Communication (possibly more specifically Communication_manner) and the Sound_emission frame (which simply characterizes basic sounds of whatever source, including those made by animals and inanimate objects).  As such, it involves a Speaker who produces noise and thus communicates a Message to an Addressee. '' '"Don't treat me as a child!" she cried scornfully.'  'A writer in the Town Planning Review trumpeted that train-sheds were now obsolete.'  'You know he yelled at Aunt Lou yesterday, because he slipped on that mat in the hall.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Speaker is the sentient entity that delivers the Message.  'Kim whined that it wasn't fair.'  > Message has a number of different realizations in this frame, including that-clauses, direct quotes, infinitival complements, for-to phrases, and NP Objects. 'Kim whined that it wasn't fair.' '"Get moving!" Jess growled.' 'Jess growled at me to get moving.' 'Jess growled for me to get moving.' 'Jess growled an order.' Quoted Messages may either precede or follow the External Argument and verb, or may be discontinuous. '"Get moving!"Jess growled.' 'Jess growled angrily "Get moving!"' '"For goodness sake," Jess growled, "get moving!"'  > Topic occurs in PP Complements, usually headed by about.  'Kim howled about the unfairness of it all.'  > The Voice describes the <fex name="">Speaker's utterance or other message-encoded production. 'John's voice bellowed for her to be quiet.'


Input:
LUs: платить
Example: Покупатели платят прямо продавцу.
FN Name: Commerce_pay
FN Core FEs: Buyer > Goods > Money > Rate > Seller
FN Definition: This frame involves Buyers paying Money for Goods.  In this frame the Money is the direct object, and is mapped to the theme of the transfer.  'I paid her $50 for a video game.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Buyer has the Money and wants the Goods. 'Gem paid fifty dollars for a shirt' > The FE Goods is anything (including labor or time, for example) which is exchanged for Money in a transaction.  'Kim paid fifty dollars for the shirt' > Money is the thing given in exchange for Goods in a transaction. 'Pat paid 14 dollars for a movie ticket.'  > In some cases, price or payment is described per unit of Goods. 'The manager pays the paper boys five dollars an hour. ' > The Seller has the Goods and wants the Money. 'The landlord is paid  $700 a month by the tenants for the apartment.  ' 


Input:
LUs: платить
Example: Этот благородный человек даже врагам платил добром за зло.
FN Name: Repayment
FN Core FEs: Loaner > Debtor > Money > Loan
FN Definition: A Debtor gives a Loaner Money in return for having borrowed Money at an earlier time. Alternatively, the type of Loan can be expressed as the object of repayment.  'I am paying back $2,000 of my student loan to the government.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who is owed Money by the Debtor.  'If you borrow, you'll have to repay the bank' > The person who is giving Money to the Loaner to return an earlier borrowed amount.  'I paid Johnson back for the movie ticket.' > The amount of Money that the Debtor gives to the Loaner, which may or may not be the full amount of the Loan.  'Pay me back my 20 dollars!' > A situation or a representative of a situation prior to repayment in which the Debtor uses the Loaner's money.  'You must repay the mortgage in full.'


Input:
LUs: плескать
Example: Дерево напротив , плещущее ветвями во время летней грозы .
FN Name: Measure_by_action
FN Core FEs: Entity > Event
FN Definition: This frame involves words that provide a measure for some undelimited (mass) Entity by referring to an Event that a prototypical quantity (or duration) of the Entity stereotypically participates in.  The Entity is not necessarily a physical entity, but may instead be an undelimited type of event (such as a noise, or an activity).   'He put two splashes of cologne on his face.' 'Sorry--there's only two bites of cake left.' 'Add a pinch of salt.'
FN Core FEs definitions: An abstract or concrete undelimited entity that is measured by the Event. > The event that a delimitable quantity or duration of an Entity participates in.


Input:
LUs: плескать
Example: Над тайгой , над сумрачными скалами , над речкой с плещущим названием «Вёлс» взошёл узенький лисий месяц .
FN Name: Idiosyncrasy
FN Core FEs: Idiosyncrasy > Entity
FN Definition: A certain Idiosyncrasy belongs to an Entity distinguishing it from other entities.   'If you have 32 totally idiosyncratic meanings for a term in a class, everyone will be very confused when they talk! DNI'  'The art of change-ringing is peculiar to the English'
FN Core FEs definitions: An entity or characteristic  belonging to the Entity.  'Paul has an idiosyncratic tendency to go barefoot at all times.' > The Entity that has a certain distinguishing Idiosyncrasy.  'This bird is unique to England'


Input:
LUs: победить
Example: Победив всех своих противников, Римская империя утвердилась в Малой Азии.
FN Name: Finish_competition
FN Core FEs: Competitor > Opponent > Competitors > Competition
FN Definition: A Competition comes to an end, with a Competitor tying, winning, or losing against an Opponent (or opponents) according to their Score.  (In the symmetrical situation of a tie, the Competitor and Opponent may be jointly mentioned as Competitors.)  According to the Score that the Competitor and Opponent have achieved, they may receive a Rank or a Prize.  The Margin may also be mentioned.  'Unbelievable--he lost the gold medal by just .02 points!' 'Looks like it will came to a draw between Woods and Stephenson.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual involved in the Competition. > The individual that the Competitor has been competing against. > The individuals who compete against each other. > The event in which the Competitors compete with each other.


Input:
LUs: повторить
Example: Врач повторил, что не видит оснований для беспокойства .
FN Name: Event_instance
FN Core FEs: Instance > Event
FN Definition: This frame describes a particular instance of an event.  'These next two days will be the last two times that I'm here.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The particular Instance of a given event. All LUs in this frame incorporate this Frame Element.  'He dumped trash for the last time.'  'He tapped me twice on the shoulder.' > The event that occurred in one or more instances.  'Listen to this song six times.'


Input:
LUs: повысить
Example: Его повысили по службе.
FN Name: Cause_change_of_position_on_a_scale
FN Core FEs: Agent > Attribute > Item > Cause
FN Definition: This frame consists of words that indicate that an Agent or a Cause affects the position of an Item on some scale (the Attribute) to change it from an initial value (Value_1) to an end value (Value_2). The direction of the change (Path) can be encoded as well as the magnitude of the change (Difference). The rate of change of the value (Speed) can optionally be indicated as well as a second scale (Co_Variable), which the values are correlated with.  '' 'The company is raising the final dividend from 4.34p to 4.57p, to boost the total by 5.3 percent to 6.36p.'  'Similarly, a consumer boom will encourage the authorities to increase interest rates in order to keep money supply on target.'  'United Way of Central Indiana adds value to your investment.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who causes an entity (Item) to change its positon on a scale with respect to some property (Variable). > The scale along which the Item ranges in value. 'They increased the price of oil.' > The entity whose position along a scale is being changed.  'Oil prices were raised yesterday.' > The force that causes the change. 'The rain increased the river's flow rate to an astonishing million gallons per second.'


Input:
LUs: поддаваться
Example: Бумага поддается действию огня.
FN Name: Endeavor_failure
FN Core FEs: Endeavor
FN Definition: Some individual or group ceases to be able to sustain an Endeavor (a long-term activity involving economic interaction with the public, often a business venture).  Unlike Business_failure and Locale_closure, the Endeavor need not refer to an organization or business tied to a specific location or locations.  'Exxon went under.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Endeavor is rendered unable to continue its regular operations.  'His small business failed.'


Input:
LUs: поддаваться
Example: Чтобы у сына на остывал интерес к шахматам, отец незаметно ему поддавался.
FN Name: Giving_in
FN Core FEs: Capitulator > Issue > Compeller > Force > Resultant_action
FN Definition: A Capitulator who has been opposing a Force, which is typically exerted by a Compeller, ceases opposing that Force. As a result, the Force runs its course and an Issue is resolved against the interests of the Capitulator.   'Accordingly, there is no basis to conclude that Tazewell acquiesced in the rule against claim-splitting.' 'Accordingly, there is no basis to conclude that Tazewell acquiesced in the rule against claim-splitting.'   'My uncle continued trying to placate Nuayman until the latter relented. DNI DNI'   ' Genesis acquiesced to doing a short Q and A session. DNI'  'The government would not yield to pressure , the spokeswoman promised . DNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual that yields to the Force exerted by the Compeller.   'I sensed that if John caved in to her that it would hurt his game.' > The matter, usually concerning a course of action, in which the Capitulator has disagreed with the Compeller.  'Historically, the Senate has yielded to the House on the issue.' > An individual that intentionally exerts Force on the Capitulator.  'Relatively new to business, poor Kellie had eventually caved in to him.' > A state of affairs, typically brought about by a Compeller, that impinges on the Capitulator and eventually causes them to no longer pursue their own view on the Issue.   'In 1649, Descartes yielded to the request of Queen Christina of Sweden that he join her distinguished circle she was assembling in Stockholm.'  > The action that the Capitulator engages in after giving in to the Force.  'After months of pressure by my staff, I have finally yielded to doing a commentary on advertising.'


Input:
LUs: подозревать
Example: Его заподозрили в неблаговидных делах .
FN Name: Suspicion
FN Core FEs: Authority > Suspect > Incident
FN Definition: A person or group, the Authority, believes that another person, the Suspect is a participant in a criminal Incident.  'The police suspect Noah Rogers of aiding the robbery last night at Shop-n-drive.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Authority is the group or person who suspects the Suspect of criminal activity. > The Suspect is the target of the Authority's suspicion. > The (typically criminal) Incident in which the Suspect is suspected of being involved.


Input:
LUs: подражать
Example: Иван подражал отцу в манере говорить .
FN Name: Imitating
FN Core FEs: Agent > Characteristic > Standard
FN Definition: An Agent displays a Characteristic of a Standard in his or her own way of behaving.   'I guessed he was trying to imitate the movements of a skier'  'In a tv commercial last year, she aped male slobbiness in a singlet and Y-front-style underpants, kicking back on the couch, watching sport.'  ''You are all the same ,' he said, imitating not her voice but its angry cadence.'  'Antony, after he had seen this man, imitated him in piety.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is the person that borrows a Characteristic behavior from a Standard.  'Mimic Snotlings do n't really think for themselves, they merely mimic the actions of Orcs and Goblins around them.' > The Characteristic is a behavior or property that the Standard possesses and which the Agent adopts in his or her own behavior.  'They were all mimicking my accent.' > The Standard is the entity that exhibits a certain Characteristic that the Agent models their own behavior on.  'The singer says Gwen has copied her in many different ways.'


Input:
LUs: подхватить
Example: Я где-то подхватил грипп .
FN Name: Come_down_with
FN Core FEs: Protagonist > Disease
FN Definition: A Protagonist comes to suffer from a Disease, often implicitly acquired from a Source.  'She got the measles .' 'The virus when acquired from environmental sources is often less severe .' 'I 'm afraid I 've come down with a cold .'
FN Core FEs definitions:  > 


Input:
LUs: подчеркнуть
Example: Дети подчеркнули в тексте все глаголы.
FN Name: Convey_importance
FN Core FEs: Speaker > Message > Medium
FN Definition: Through a  Message, a Speaker (sometimes encoded metonymically by a Medium) communicates the relative importance of the state of affairs denoted by the Message.   'Reid emphasized that he and Dean meet every month.' 'Above all , Mr Tsongas stressed the need for his message to be heard.' ' Professor Perkin has stressed how favourable Britain 's situation was .' 'The courts have repeatedly stressed that the making of an order is discretionary.' '"The whole Muslim society should respect these rights," he stressed.' 'The panelists stressed to an audience of about 100 at North Dakota State University's Memorial Union that people of different religions in this community need to talk - and find out they're not all that different.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who uses language in the written or spoken modality to convey a Message to another person.   'Juhl emphasized the importance of UPMC System investments, stating that their contribution to the school's funds had tripled in recent years.' > The proposition whose denotation the Speaker presents as important.  'He emphasized to me that my words will go down in history and that this poem has made a difference in our world.' > The physical or abstract setting in which the Message is conveyed.   'The report emphasized that Iraq's unwillingness to cooperate represents a serious problem for the progress of this work.'


Input:
LUs: подчеркнуть > сосредоточиться
Example: Бледность его лица только подчеркивала лихорадочный блеск глаз.
FN Name: Emphasizing
FN Core FEs: Consideration > Agent > Competing_consideration > Artifact > Action
FN Definition: An Agent who is engaged in an Undertaking accords a Degree of importance to a Consideration that influences the success of an Undertaking. As a consequence, the Agent acts in a way that reflects that judgment of importance.   'Our company emphasizes marketing tried and true products and services.INI'  'In fact, most search engines place little weight on words placed in meta tags when creating their relevancy rankings.INI'  'The emphasis is on the fundamental principles from which the automotive technologies of the future will develop, rather than on present-day processes.'  'Our emphasis on quality does not stop with our products. INI'  'When shooting in my studio, I emphasize a relaxed atmosphere.INI'
FN Core FEs definitions: An event or state of affairs, an attribute, or an entity whose properties have the potential to influence the success of the Agent's Undertaking.  'The ICBL has prioritised working to achieve universalisation of the Mine Ban Treaty in South Asia by 2004.' > The Agent is the individual who devotes time, concentration, or other resources to a Consideration that is important for the success of a larger Undertaking.  'Dell said Friday the company will put more emphasis on selling software' > The Competing_consideration is another factor that is relevant to the Undertaking to which the Agent devotes less attention or effort.  'Monophysite Christians  emphasized Christ's divinity over his humanity.' > The Artifact is a physical object designed with some Consideration in mind, such that it functions to facilitate the Undertaking.  'Water is a scarce commodity on French Island so the guest house places strong emphasis on water conservation.' > The Action is performed with importance placed on the Consideration.  'Result Oriented Management' 'UN efforts focused on the rehabilitation and economic development of south Lebanon'


Input:
LUs: пожать
Example: Комбайнер пожал рожь.
FN Name: Food_gathering
FN Core FEs: Gatherer > Crop > Source
FN Definition: A Gatherer removes Crop ripe and ready to an accepted degree. The Crop comes from a  Source where it has been grown and matured.  'They harvest their pumpkins in the Autumn. INI '  'We bring in the tobacco from the fields during the summer.'  'The stage at which the peppercorns are harvested from the vine decides their colour . CNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Gatherer is the agent gathering the Crop.  'Small growers can harvest quality crops.' > Crop is item being collected together by the Gatherer.  'Tubers harvested immediately after spraying developed gangrene.' > The Source is the ground where the Crop is gathered from.  'They picked the apples from the tallest trees.'


Input:
LUs: полагаться > предоставить
Example: Здесь курить не полагается.
FN Name: Deny_or_grant_permission
FN Core FEs: Authority > Protagonist > Action
FN Definition: In this frame, an Authority allows a Protagonist to know (in some way) that they may or may not engage in an Action. For lexical units of this frame marked with the semantic type "Negative", e.g., authorize.v, the Authority has the power to tell the Protagonist not to do something, but does not do so. It is assumed that if the Protagonist engages in the Action without permission, then the Authority will punish the Protagonist in some way, at least with disapproval; if the Authority grants permission, however, the Authority is agreeing not to impose a punishment on the Protagonist for performing the Action.   'The police officer forbid me from turning around .' ' My mother okayed me to go to the movies with Simon . '   ' The teacher gave the children permission to eat their lunch outside. '  'The Church had sanctioned for recital after Mass a special prayer to St. Michael.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Authority orders the Protagonist to not engage in a particular Action. > The Protagonist wants to engage in an Action, but is ordered not to by the Authority. > The Action is what the Protagonist seeks to do, but is ordered not to.


Input:
LUs: понадобиться
Example: Ему понадобилось съездить в Москву.
FN Name: Have_as_requirement
FN Core FEs: Dependent > Requirement > Required_entity
FN Definition: The obtaining of a Requirement state of affairs or the presence of a Required_entity is profiled as a prerequisite for the obtaining or occurring of a Dependent state-of-affairs.  'This game demands great skill.'  'The war on terror requires little sacrifice for most Americans.'  'Glass  art demands great patience from the student.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The state-of-affairs which cannot hold without the state of affairs of the Requirement or the presence of the Required_entity. > The state-of-affairs that must obtain in order for the Dependent to obtain. > An entity that has to be present for the Dependent state of affairs to obtain.  'Believe it or not, but this cake requires a pound of mild sausage.'


Input:
LUs: попасть
Example: Капля попала на папиросу.
FN Name: Motion_directional
FN Core FEs: Area > Goal > Path > Theme > Source > Direction
FN Definition: In this frame a Theme moves in a certain Direction which is often determined by gravity or other natural, physical forces. The Theme is not necessarily a self-mover.  ' The paper fell to the floor.'  ' The girl dropped 13 stories to her death.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE identifies the general Area in which motion takes place when the motion is understood to be irregular or not to consist of a single, linear path.  'Soot-contaminated snow falls in Slovakia's mountainous regions.' > The Goal is the location the Theme ends up in (often unintentionally).  'The rivals both fell backwards into empty space.'  > Path refers to (a part of) the ground over which the Theme travels  or to a landmark past which the Theme travels.  'The boys plummeted down the stairs into the basement.' > The Theme is the entity that changes location.  'In 1977,  Nigel plunged to his death in his car on a mountain road in southern France.' > The Source is the location the Theme occupies before the Motion occurs.  'The man toppled from the passenger seat into the road.' > The direction of motion of the Theme.  Direction characterizes the Path of motion according to some system of orientation, most often that imposed by gravity.  'I hope your egg does n't fall down .'


Input:
LUs: попасть
Example: Я случайно попала  на день рождения .
FN Name: Path_traveled
FN Core FEs: Path > Theme
FN Definition: A Path, a series of connected locations, is traversed by a Theme, moving under its own power or under the influence of a physical force. The Path may be described in various terms depending on whether it is bounded or not. If it is bounded, the Path may be identified by its Endpoints, which may be presented separately as Source and Goal.  'For Earth, these perturbations slowly change the eccentricity of the planet's orbit around the Sun.'  'From the eyewitness accounts, as well as satellite data, videos and photos, Brown and his team have worked out the meteor's path through space.'  'Its period around Saturn is just under one Earth day, meaning that it really barrels along, to cover its 700,000 mile orbit in such a short time.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The series of interconnected locations that the Theme traverses.  'In insects, blood is confined to vessels during only a portion of its circuit through the body.' > The moving object whose motion describes the Path.  'The thick white line shows the army's path from Uzbekistan through Iran, Iraq, Palestine, and into Italy.'


Input:
LUs: попасться
Example: Я попалась отцу на лестнице .
FN Name: Touring
FN Core FEs: Tourist > Attraction
FN Definition: A Tourist experiences an Attraction, a location with a unique history or other societally recognized individual character, with the goal of seeing and learning about it. Typically, the Attraction has a source of information about the Attraction--a guide, pamphlets, or displays.  'We toured the Grand Canyon.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual that is seeking an experience at an Attraction. > The societally-recognized unique location that the Tourist experiences.


Input:
LUs: поправить
Example: Я поправил соседке замок.
FN Name: Adjusting
FN Core FEs: Agent > Part > Feature
FN Definition: An Agent changes a Part of a complex entity with regard to some Feature in order to achieve some Imposed_purpose affected by the Feature.  The complex entity is often a device or mechanism, but may also be an abstract entity such as the economy.  Also, the full entity may be used in place of the Part.  'I need to adjust the thermostat to around 80 degrees when she visits.' 'It didn't work the first time , so she had to tweak the oven a little .' 'Greenspan expressed confidence that the current calibration of interest rates was not an overcompensation .'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual that controls the value of a Feature. > The part of the complex entity which is changed in the process of adjusting. 'She adjusted the injectors to make the mixture leaner.' > The Feature with respect to which the Part is adjusted. 'She adjusted the temperature of the oven so that the pie crust would brown a little.'


Input:
LUs: поправить
Example: Свежий воздух поправит ваше здоровье.
FN Name: Cause_to_make_progress
FN Core FEs: Project > Agent
FN Definition: An Agent works on a Project so that it reaches a more advanced and desirable state.  'I improve FrameNet.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The object or idea that undergoes change due to the efforts of the Agent.   > The individual that brings about the development of the Project.  


Input:
LUs: похитить
Example: Вор похитил кольца и часы с витрины .
FN Name: Theft
FN Core FEs: Perpetrator > Victim > Goods > Source
FN Definition: These are words describing situations in which a Perpetrator takes Goods from a  Victim or a Source. The Means by which this is accomplished may also be expressed.  'I can't believe he pickpocketed my gold watch !' 'I had to pilfer from the office just to get by . INI' 'Snatching purses from little old ladies is not a living . CNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: Perpetrator is the person (or other agent) that takes the goods away.   'Leslie stole the watch from Kim.' > Victim is the person (or other sentient being or group) that owns the goods before they are taken away by the perpetrator. 'Leslie stole the watch from Kim. ' > Goods is anything (including labor, time, or legal rights) that can be taken away.   'Leslie STOLE the watch from Kim.' > Source is the initial location of the goods, before they change location.  'Leslie stole the watch from the table.'


Input:
LUs: походить
Example: Она внешностью походила на монашенку, ей обязательно надо было пойти на костёр, чтобы сгореть за свою веру.
FN Name: Similarity
FN Core FEs: Entities > Entity_1 > Entity_2 > Dimension > Differentiating_fact
FN Definition: Two or more distinct entities, which may be concrete or abstract objects or types, are characterized as being similar to each other.  Depending on figure/ground relations, the entities may be expressed in two distinct frame elements and constituents , Entity_1 and Entity_2, or jointly as a single frame element and constituent, Entities.  The similarity may be based on appearance, physical properties, or other characteristics of the two entities. However, no such Dimension has to  be specified explicitly.  The Entities may be like each other to a greater or lesser Degree. Rather than specifying the Dimension of difference, a Differentiating_fact may be mentioned.   '' Notice that, although similarity presupposes the notion of a judge who assesses similarity, that judge is not part of the frame of similarity.  'A mulberry is very similar in shape  to a loganberry' 'Recovering it afterwards can also be similar to collecting an unsecured loan ' 'Great Britain and Germany were only alike in one respect.' 'Lothlorien is quite like most of their other war games really.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE marks constituents that express the set of objects or types whose similarity is at issue.   ' The two painters  were alike in being unable to draw acceptably . ' 'Agbenugba confirms the resemblances between his own experience and that of his protagonist.' > When there is an asymmetry, Entity_1 is the entity characterized by its similarity to Entity_2, whose characteristics are assumed to be known.  Entity_1 is often an external argument.  'In the first phase Barthes's approach has similarities to that of Levi-Strauss.' 'Our economy is like a healthy plant after a long drought' 'I found a similar passage in Tolkien.' > When the Entities are expressed separately, Entity_2 is the one whose characteristics are assumed to be known; it serves as a basis for establishing characteristics of Entity_1.  'The results of Method 2 show remarkable similarity to those obtained by Method 1' 'Leadbelly's recordings are not dissimilar to those of Jimmie Rodgers.' 'This is a problem different from meltdown only in degree.' 'Here we see a similar case. DNI' > This FE marks constituents which express a property in respect to which the similarity of the entities is assessed.  'The disc announced Friday is physically similar to current music CDs ' > A fact about Entity_1 or the Entities that reveals how Entity_1 is the same or different from other entities.  (Note the contrast with 'as to'.)  'His presidency was different in that it offered a way forward for the common man .' 'Banks primarily differ in offering different rates for different risks .' 'We are all similar in having two arms , two legs , a mind , and a heart to feel with .'


Input:
LUs: появиться
Example: Позже появились ещё две дочери.
FN Name: Visitor_arrival
FN Core FEs: Agent > Goal
FN Definition: An Agent arrives at a Goal that should enable their Purpose.
FN Core FEs definitions: Agent is the object that moves under its own power.  > Goal is any expression that tells where the Agent ends up, or would end up, as a result of the motion.  Although always conceptually present and specific, Goal may sometimes be understood from context, rather than expressed by any separate constituent. 'Our visitors arrived yesterday.'


Input:
LUs: праздновать > предстоять
Example: 12 декабря ансамбль празднует юбилей.
FN Name: Social_event_collective
FN Core FEs: Attendees
FN Definition: This frames describes a social event where there may or may not be a permanent or semi-permanent relationship between participants. Additionally, participants in this frame are expressed in one representative FE, Attendees.  Note the difference between this frame and Social_event_individuals, where participants are grammatically separated.  'Our date yesterday was interrupted by my ex-boyfriend!'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Attendees are the collectively construed participants of the social event.


Input:
LUs: превратить > принять
Example: Труд людей превратил пустыню в сад.
FN Name: Undergo_transformation
FN Core FEs: Entity > Final_category > Initial_category
FN Definition: An Entity changes from one kind of thing (Initial_category) to another kind of thing (Final_category).  Whether the Initial_category is mentioned or not, the change is viewed as negating some Initial_category, and not simply adding an additional Final_category to the Entity.  'She metamorphosed from a mere coworker into a friend .' 'His mother had transformed into a rock star . INI ' 'The metamorphosis of his attitude from benign neglect to active hatred was so slow he never noticed .' 'The transformation from Ms. Nobody had taken her years . DNI INI '
FN Core FEs definitions: The concrete or abstract entity that undergoes a change.  'How pleasing to see that Scranton has metamorphosed .' > The type of Entity that results from the change.  'His smile transformed into a frown .' > The category that the Entity belongs to before it undergoes the change.  'The viccar converted from a professional clergyman into an anti-ecclesiastical activist.'


Input:
LUs: предоставить > представить
Example: Предоставить Банку для открытия Счёта надлежащим образом оформленные и удостоверенные документы в соответствии с требованиями действующего законодательства РФ.
FN Name: Submitting_documents
FN Core FEs: Submittor > Authority > Documents
FN Definition: A Submittor gives Documents to an Authority so that they can be processed as part of an application, evaluation or other official or bureaucratic process.   'I  was sure I had passed as soon as I handed in the test. DNI'  'She stated that she turned in the paperwork yesterday.'  'After the applicant's submission to the department, the department chairperson must evaluate.'  'I acknowledge my submission of the Material to you shall not lead to a concurrent review by any of your affiliate and subsidiary channels.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person that begins in possession of the Documents and gives them over into the possession of the Authority for processing.  'The Human Services financial worker cannot decide if you will get food support benefits until you turn in the form and needed verifications.' > The individual or organization that ends up in possession of the Documents and processes them.  'If an application is late, whether you submitted it late to us or it was held up at your Command, NMETC will not be able to fund registration fees.' > The artifacts containing content, typically in the form of text and images, that the Submittor gives to the Authority.  'Once you have submitted the form, a request to make an oral statement will be generated based on the information you supplied.'


Input:
LUs: предполагать > придерживаться > смотреть
Example: Предположим, что вы правы .
FN Name: Opinion
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Opinion
FN Definition: A Cognizer holds a particular Opinion, which may be portrayed as being about a particular Topic.  'John thinks that it looks better back .' 'Well, my opinion about that is none of your business. '  'What 's your take on the recent oil crisis ?'  'Your view of Smithers as an excellent secretary is not shared by the rest of the UN.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Cognizer is the person whose Opinion is in question.   'My take is that Johnson will not actually make it to the last round .' 'Everyone is entitled to their opinion .' > The Cognizer's way of thinking, which is not necessarily generally accepted, and which is generally dependent on the Cognizer's point of view.  'My take is that it is a version of the Macbeth story - what happens when people become violent but cannot quite handle it.' 'Svetlana knew that it was Sergei's view that the Berlin crises were merely a charade which it was necessary for both sides to enact and re-enact every few years.' 'Her child-like portrayal only manages to live up to the other characters' view of her as the deranged little sister.' 


Input:
LUs: предполагать > прийтись
Example: Данная теория предполагает, что Вселенная расширяется ,.
FN Name: Being_necessary
FN Core FEs: Dependent > Requirement > Required_entity
FN Definition: A Dependent state-of-affairs has a Requirement as a prerequisite for obtaining or occurring.  'The atomic bombings were probably not necessary to win WWII without a mainland invasion of Japan.'  'We will take the required measures, regardless of the yelping of the left. DNI'  ' Two tokens are necessary for county to county trips.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The state-of-affairs which cannot hold without the Requirement. > The entity or state-of-affairs that must be present or obtain in order for the Dependent to obtain. > An entity that has to be present for the Dependent state of affairs to obtain.


Input:
LUs: предпочитать > претендовать
Example: Он предпочитал обойти этот щекотливый вопрос.
FN Name: Preference
FN Core FEs: Experiencer > Event > Focal_participant > Location_of_event > Contrast
FN Definition: An Experiencer has a greater desire to participate in some Event, as against another (contextually recoverable) event which exhibits a specific Contrast with the Event. Alternatively, the Experiencer may have a greater desire that some Focal_participant participate in the Event. The Location_of_event may also be mentioned.  'Why do women prefer manly faces?' 'I prefer open source programs over proprietary ones.' 'Other customers prefer to send us an order together with a cheque.' 'I prefer my tartar sauce on fish.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Experiencer is the person (or sentient being) who wishes for the Event to occur. > The change that the Experiencer would like to see. > This is the entity that the Experiencer wishes to be affected by some Event. > The Location_of_event is the place involved in the desired Event.  > An alternative Event or Focal_participant that is less desirable for the Experiencer.  'I always preferred trackballs over mouses.'


Input:
LUs: представиться
Example: Он представился мне .
FN Name: Amalgamation
FN Core FEs: Parts > Whole > Part_1 > Part_2
FN Definition: These words refer to Parts merging to form a Whole.  (The Parts may also be encoded as Part_1 and Part_2.)  There is a symmetrical relationship between the components that undergo the process, and afterwards the Parts are consumed and are no longer distinct entities that are easily discernable or separable in the Whole.  'The two droplets merge, and then travel down the windowpane even faster.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The entities that merge to form a single Whole. > The single, undifferentiated entity that is the result of the amalgamation.  'They had all just merged into one big file.' > The prominent entity that combines with Part_2 to form a Whole.  'The single smaller soul merges with the Ur-soul.'</def-root > > The less focussed-upon entity that the Part_1 merges with.  'The single smaller soul merges with the Ur-soul.'


Input:
LUs: претендовать
Example: Я претендую на то, чтобы возглавить этот фонд.
FN Name: Claim_ownership
FN Core FEs: Claimant > Property
FN Definition: A Claimant asserts his or her right to possession of a piece of Property (either real, such as land, or private).  The Claimant may be acting on the behalf of a Beneficiary. 'The King claims this land and surrounding waters.' 'Hoping to strike it rich, Thaddeus Gulch staked his claim by the river bed.' 'I <supp>have</supp> dibs on the last piece of cake.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Claimant asserts rights or priviliges, typically ownership, over some Property. 'The king ordered the envoy to claim the land accross the river.' > The Property is declared to be under the ownership of the Claimant. 'I claim this forest and environs in the name of the Queen.'


Input:
LUs: придерживаться
Example: Он придерживается, больше ему не с кем душу отвесть.
FN Name: Activity_ongoing
FN Core FEs: Duration > Activity > Agent
FN Definition: An Agent is performing the portion of an Activity in which there is dynamic stability. '' 'Not noticing the hoards of people rushing by the window, Manny continued eating his lunch.'  'Keep living the dream!'
FN Core FEs definitions: Duration denotes the length of Time from the beginning of a continuous situation (the one denoted by the target) to its end. In many cases, the continuous situation is a dynamic action which is ongoing, while in others it is simply an undifferentiated state. > This FE identifies the name of the ongoing Activity in which an Agent engages. > The Agent engages in an ongoing Activity.


Input:
LUs: призвать
Example: Милиционер призывает людей к спокойствию .
FN Name: Cause_to_start
FN Core FEs: Cause > Effect
FN Definition: A Cause, animate or inanimate, causes a process, the Effect, to begin.  'The murder of Sergei Kirov set off a chain of events that culminated in the Great Terror of the 1930s.'  'Space email sparked astronaut jealousy.'  'A crime surge in a former coal town prompted a crackdown on illegal immigrants'.
FN Core FEs definitions: An animate or inanimate entity, a force, or event that produces an effect. Volitionality is not a necessary characteristic of Causes.   'The programme sparked a public outcry.'    > This Frame Element marks expressions that indicate the process that the Cause initiates.  'Few things spark the wrath of the British like food additives.'


Input:
LUs: прийтись > происходить
Example: На каждую лодку приходится по пять человек.
FN Name: Event
FN Core FEs: Place > Time
FN Definition: An Event takes place at a Place and Time.  'Big earthquakes only happen along plate boundaries. INI '  'The party will take place on Sunday in the all-you-can-eat buffet.'
FN Core FEs definitions: Where the event takes place. > When the event occurs.


Input:
LUs: принять
Example: Газета принимает объявления от частных лиц.
FN Name: Receiving
FN Core FEs: Recipient > Donor > Theme
FN Definition: A Recipient comes into possession of the Theme as a result of the joint action of the Donor and the Recipient.  The Receiving frame like the Giving frame requires that the Donor first has possession of the Theme and that following the transfer, the Donorno longer has the Theme and the Recipient does.  'I recieved a box from him in the mail.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who acts to come into possession of the Theme. > The person who gives the Theme to the Recipient.  > The entity that changes possession, beginning in the possession of the Donor and ending up with the Recipient.


Input:
LUs: пристать
Example: Молодой человек пристал к девушке.
FN Name: Redirecting
FN Core FEs: Theme > Original_path > Path > Goal > Direction > Agent > Cause
FN Definition: An intentional Agent or a causing event (Cause) event causes a Theme which is already in motion to take a different Path or Direction, or reach a different Goal than the Original_path.  'The hotel business didn't last - especially after the construction of a railroad diverted travelers a few miles west to what is now the village of Eagle'  'Pakistan government officials helped and diverted the trucks to another camp in the no-man's land in Mach.'  'Prior to the arrival of the president's motorcade, the police redirected the protesters away from the main roadonce more.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The entity that is in motion, and changes path due to the action of an Agent or due to a Cause.  > The route that the Theme was originally headed for.  In cases when the Theme is an intentional actor or is controlled by an intentional actor, the Original_path correlates with the (former) plan of the actor.  In other cases, the Original_path corresponds to what would be expected for the path of the Theme from general principles or physics.  (In some cases, the Original_path may indicate the intended destination, and not just the path, of the Theme.)  'VTA detoured motorists from southbound I-880 onto Airport Boulevard to access Coleman Avenue.' > The Path refers to (a part of) the ground over which the Theme ends up travelling after being diverted.   'Traffic was redirected Tuesday along Melrose Avenue to make way for the scoreboard columns, Mellecker said.' > The location the Theme ends up in after being redirected.   'Not knowing any better, he redirected people to the city center.' > This FE is used for expressions that indicate motion along a line from the current deitic center towards a reference point (which may be implicit) that does not necessarily correspond to the Goal.  Often Direction is defined with reference to the canonical orientation of the Theme, the orientation imposed by an implicit observer, or the inherent orientation of the scene.  'Flight 93 left Newark, NJ, earlier that day, bound for San Francisco, but it was hijacked by four terrorists who diverted it back toward Washington, DC . ' > An individual that determines the change in course of the Theme.  'When we ended up over in Marrakech, or Dakar, they diverted us up to Tobruk.' > An event that brings about the change in the Path of the Theme.  'We even got a bonus morning in Tokyo's international airport when a bad storm diverted us on the way to Asia.'


Input:
LUs: пристать
Example: К его бравому виду пристал зычный голос.
FN Name: Desirable_event
FN Core FEs: State_of_affairs
FN Definition: A particular State_of_affairs is desirable.  The State_of_affairs may be required to achieve a Purpose.  A set of Circumstances may be specified under which the assessment of desirability holds.   'You should take the doses about 12 hours apart and at the same time each day.' ' If the metal is seriously rusted or warped, it should be repaired or replaced with a chimney top damper.' 'To ensure that, you should have no CLASSPATH set.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The State_of_affairs that the speaker finds desirable.


Input:
LUs: пристать
Example: Вот, вся спина пристала , а тут ты не открываешь.
FN Name: Biological_urge
FN Core FEs: Experiencer > Expressor > State
FN Definition: An Experiencer is in a State where a biological urge is signaling the need to perform a certain action such as eating, drinking, stopping exertion, sleeping, regurgitating, or having sex. The Duration, Time, Place, or Degree of intensity associated with the occurrence of the urge may also be indicated.  In this frame, the Experiencer does not necessarily want to perform the action that would fulfill the urge, and there is no specific focus associated with the urge.  'Mike feels hungry.'  'Sam was thirsty after dinner.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Experiencer receives the biological signal and possesses the internal experience which is a reaction to the phsyical signal. 'Mr. Burns was sexually aroused.' > Expressor is used for a gesture, expression, or body part indicating that the Experiencer is feeling a certain urge.  'He gave me a tired shrug and then looked down again.' > State identifies the Experiencer's state of being.  'She was alarmed by John's hungry <fex  name = "State">state.'


Input:
LUs: присутствовать
Example: В зале  присутствуют все сотрудники института.
FN Name: Attending
FN Core FEs: Agent > Event
FN Definition: An Agent goes to an Event and is present in a relatively non-participatory way.  'The Angolan guerrillas will attend a September meeting in Zaire.'  'We just go to the movies when it rains.'  'His attendance at the funeral did not go unnoticed.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The  Agent is the person who chooses to make himself present at the Event. > The Event is the deliberate set of happenings given at a particular time and place.


Input:
LUs: пробить
Example: Неразумно пробивать новые шурфы на старых разработках.
FN Name: Practice
FN Core FEs: Action > Agent > Occasion
FN Definition: An Agent enacts an Action that is intended to be performed again at one or more later Occasions.  The goal of practicing is to ensure that the action at the later Occasion(s) comes off flawlessly.   'I practiced my song for the play.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE identifies the Action that the Agent performs intentionally in order to prepare for a later Occasion.  'Little Dieter practiced playing the piano all day.' > The Agent performs the Action in preparation for later performances of the same type. > The later enactment or enactments that the Agent expects to perform. Note that the Agent does not have to have specific Occasions in mind.  'For our brother's wedding we had to rehearse the dinner twenty times.'


Input:
LUs: пробить
Example: Пробейте по компьютеру, не числится ли в угоне машина с таким-то номером.
FN Name: Inspecting
FN Core FEs: Inspector > Ground > Unwanted_entity > Purpose > Desired_state_of_affairs
FN Definition: An Inspector directs his/her perceptual attention to a Ground to ascertain whether the Ground is intact or  whether an Unwanted_entity is present. Alternatively, the desired outcome of the inspection may be presented as a Purpose.   'The police removed Flonnory and Barbour from the automobile and frisked them for weapons.' 'Double-check the form to make sure all of the information has been entered correctly.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who inspects the Ground to see if it is intact or without blemish.  'Smithers proof-read my paper on phlogiston production.' > The entity that the Inspector inspects with his senses to ascertain whether it is intact.  ' `Mister Thomas' said Holmes, `have you examined the lock to determine whether or not it has been forced or otherwise tampered with?'' > An entity whose presence would impair the acceptability or usefulness of the Ground.  'Security guards frisked all the spectators for weapons as they entered the stadium.' > Some of the words in this frame occur with a constituent that expresses the desired outcome of the inspection.  Normally this constituent is a PP Complement headed by for, or a to-marked VP Complement.  'Check all gutter brackets and clips to ensure no water will drip on to the walls.' > The desirable state of affairs which the Inspector hopes to find to obtain when inspecting the Ground.  'Check that the light is out before you leave.'


Input:
LUs: пробовать
Example: Садовник пробовал, хорошо ли он посадил дерево.
FN Name: Experimentation
FN Core FEs: Experimenter > Control_group > Control_group_member > Treatment_group > Treated_individual > Experiment > Hypothesis > Subjects > Topic
FN Definition: An Experimenter conducts an Experiment based on a Hypothesis.  This Experiment contains a Control_group or Control_group_member which is compared with a Treatment_group or Treated_individual in order to determine the Result. '' 'Johann's experiment proved the new drug was effective in treating the disease.'  'Jacob placed the control group under a strong light for 20 hours each day.'   'Rolf tested his hypothesis in Vienna in 1973.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Experimenter is the individual conducting the Experiment. 'Justin's experiment turned out to be rather successful.'  'The professor performed an interesting experiment for the class. ' > The group of entities in the Experiment which have not been treated and are compared to the Treatment_group or Treated_individual. ''  'The control in George's experiment consisted of 17 mice.' > An individual entity of the Experiment which is left untreated and then compared with the Treatment_group or the Treated_individual.  '' > A group of subjects that receive Treatment and are compared to the Control_group or Controlled_individuals. '' 'The experiment's rats who received a dose of the drug every hour did not live to see the next day. DNI' > An individual subject that receives treatment and is then compared to the Control_group or Controlled_individual.  'One rat's treatment caused it to outlive the rats of the control group.' > The test or Experiment conducted by the Experimenter using a Control_group and a Treatment_group. '' 'Jeff's experimentshowed the drug to be harmful to human health.' > The Hypothesis is a conjecture as to the result of an Experiment.  The Experiment takes place in order to prove the Hypothesis as correct or incorrect.   'Katrina tested her hypothesis yesterday afternoon. ' > In this frame Control_group and Treatment_group can be combined and expressed as Subjects.  This FE can also be used for a generic individual on whom the Experiment is being conducted (see second example). 'They were hoping to conduct an experiment on the albino rats.' 'The subject was asked to respond as quickly as possible to the stimuli in front of him.' > The Topic is the subject that the Experiment is studying. 'Jimmy conducted an experiment on tropical plants in non-tropical environments.'


Input:
LUs: пробовать
Example: Старик дал нам попробовать мед .
FN Name: Tasting
FN Core FEs: Agent > Food
FN Definition: An Agent ingests or begins to ingest a Food item that they have not had before with the intention of determining its quality on some scale. A Purpose for trying the Food may be explicitly mentioned.  'Most people will never try dog.' 'I tasted the soup to see if it had enough salt.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who eats or drinks the Food.  'Patty tried the sausage before serving it.' > The entity being tasted or ingested by the Agent.  'He tasted the soup and then added a tablespoon of salt.'


Input:
LUs: пробовать > пытаться
Example: Он пробовал писать, но ничего не вышло.
FN Name: Attempt
FN Core FEs: Agent
FN Definition: An Agent attempts to achieve a Goal. The Outcome may also be mentioned explicitly.  'John attempted to climb Mt. Everest.'  'It was another failed attempt to climb Mt. Everest.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent makes an attempt to achieve a Goal. 'John attempted to climb Mt. Everest.' 


Input:
LUs: проверить
Example: Учитель систематически проверял знания учащихся.
FN Name: Examination
FN Core FEs: Examiner > Examinee > Knowledge > Qualification > Examination
FN Definition: This frame deals with testing or examination of someone's Knowledge or skill in a particular area.  An Examiner conducts an Examination to an Examinee to determine the Examinee's Knowledge and/or determine their Qualification for some privilege; this proceeds either by the Examinee demonstrating a skill or by writing responses to questions. '' 'At the end of the trial period all three groups took an English for Commerce examination to assess progress.'  'Many constables had passed the Sergeant's exam.'  'The only point of Mr. Baker's tests that I can devine is that they will serve to check up on the teachers.'
FN Core FEs definitions: One who administers a test of some kind.'The teacher tested the students.' > One who undergoes a test of some kind.'The students took a test.' > The ability, practice, or command of information on which an Examinee is tested.  'I took my driving test.' 'Is there anything more odious than a History test strictly on dates ?' > A credential or status that one acquires by passing an Examination.'He took the college entrance exam.' > The Examination that somebody takes.'The examination tests driving skills.'


Input:
LUs: греметь
Example: Прогремел поезд.
FN Name: Motion_noise
FN Core FEs: Theme > Source > Path > Goal > Area
FN Definition: This frame pertains to noise verbs used to characterize motion.  Motion_noise verbs take largely the same Source, Path and Goal expressions as other types of Motion verbs.  'The reception doors banged open.' 'Guillemots and razor bills whirred rapidly out to sea.' 'The limousine purred forwards into the traffic.' 'Loose guns rumbled all over the ship's deck .' 'The train clanged along for over a thousand miles.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Theme is the entity that changes location.  In sentences containing a Cause, the Theme is typically the NP Object.  In other sentences, the Theme is normally the External Argument.   'Pat crunched over the fresh snow.' > The Source is any expression which implies a definite starting-point of Motion.  'The train rumbled out of the station.' > The Path is any description of a trajectory of motion which is neither a Source nor a Goal.  'The truck roared through the tunnel.' > The Goal is any expression which tells where the Theme ends up as a result of the Motion.  'The plates clattered to the floor.' > This FE identifies the general Area in which motion takes place, used particularly if the motion is understood as following a complex or non-linear path.  'The fly buzzed about the room.'


Input:
LUs: прожить > протянуть
Example: Без пищи  человек может прожить месяц .
FN Name: Cycle_of_life_and_death
FN Core FEs: Protagonist
FN Definition: A Protagonist is born or sprouts, lives, dies, and then is dead.
FN Core FEs definitions: Protagonist identifies the being or entity that is dead or alive. 'Frank was dead.' 


Input:
LUs: прожить > протянуть
Example: Мы очень весело прожили остаток лета.
FN Name: Thriving
FN Core FEs: Entity > Desirability
FN Definition: An Entity is in a state such that it participates in a preponderance of states and events which are desirable for it. For living entities, this may entail a proliferation of instances of the entity, or of desirable properties associated with the (single) entity. For non-living entities (economies, political locales, academic topics, etc.), this entails a proliferation of instances, or of activities that lead to instances, or any attribute that would prevent the entity from disappearing. This state is conceived of as temporary, or at least contingent on a number of changeable factors. Words expressing the opposite state, i.e., a lack of such positive activity, are also in this frame.  'In the 1920s the peach industry flourished in Upson County.'  'Construction companies thrive on public projects.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Entity is experiencing a period of desirable events or states.  'In the 1920s the peach industry thrived in Upson County.' > This FE describes the state of the Entity. It is often incorporated into the LUs of this frame.  'He was living well after his promotion.'


Input:
LUs: прожить
Example: Мы проживаем десять рублей в день .
FN Name: Manner_of_life
FN Core FEs: Experiencer > Lifestyle > Manner
FN Definition: An Experiencer actualizes a certain pattern of behavior, a Lifestyle, which persists for a significant period of time in the Experiencer's life and is recognized as part of his character or normal routine. The Lifestyle is not necessarily realized intentionally, and may just be the result of circumstance.  'He lived a hedonistic life before he settled down.' 'When she graduated, she had to live extremeley frugally because there were no jobs.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who actualizes a pattern of behavior.  'John was living the dream.' > A pattern of behavior which the actions of the Experiencer matches for a significant period of time.  'He lived the life of a beggar.' > The Lifestyle may be characterized by a Manner, which is often expressed adverbially.  'He lived dangerously.'


Input:
LUs: происходить
Example: Он происходил от древнего и знатного рода.
FN Name: People_by_origin
FN Core FEs: Origin > Person
FN Definition: This frame contains  words for individuals, i.e. humans, with respect to their Origin. The Origin is generally incorporated, but may occasionally be specified separately.  The Person is conceived of as independent of other specific individuals with whom they have relationships and independent of their participation in any particular activity. They may have an Age, Descriptor, Persistent_characteristic, or Ethnicity.   'I'm a proud Brit.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Origin is the place where the Person was born or lived a salient part of her or his life.  In this frame, it is generally incorporated in the lexical item, but may be separately specified as in the following:  'Foreigners from Japan get short shrift around here.' > The Person is the human being whose Origin is specified.


Input:
LUs: прокричать
Example: Мы прокричали всю Левушкину месячную зарплату.
FN Name: Using_resource
FN Core FEs: Agent > Resource > Purpose > Portion > Means
FN Definition: An Agent has access to a finite amount of some Resource and uses it in some way to complete a Purpose. The specific Portion of the Resource may be stated, and after the Resource is spent, it is no longer available to the Agent. The Means by which the Resource is used may be mentioned, but it is often implied by the stated Purpose or understood based on what the Resource is.  'I used half of the bag of dirt to plant the roses.' 'She just spends all her time sitting in front of the television.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person who depletes a Resource to achieve some Goal > The exhaustible commodity that the Agent has access to. > What the Agent is attempting to achieve by using the Resource. > The amount of the Resource that the Agent uses to achieve the Purpose. > A more specific description of how the Purpose is achieved by spending the Resource.


Input:
LUs: прописать
Example: Прописали купать ребенка в растворе чабреца.
FN Name: Documents
FN Core FEs: Bearer > Issuer > Obligation > Right > Status > Document
FN Definition: Words in the frame refer to any Document that has a legal status or conventional social significance.  Some Documents empower the Bearer of the Document to execute the Right.  Others indicate the Obligation of the Bearer.  Still others show the identity or Status of the Bearer.  'They got their marriage licence from Canada.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The holder of the document. 'My  visa will expire next month.' > The authority that issues the document. 'US consulate issued a Visa to Ms. Yang to travel to San Francisco.' > Obligation is the obligation that is imposed on the Bearer of the Document. 'They were all under subpoena to appear in court.'  > Right is the right of the Bearer of the Document  that is authorized by the Document.  'Raymond has a fishing licence.' > Status is the state of the Bearer of the Document indicated by the Document. 'The couple just got their marriage certificate.' > Document is the piece of paper that has the legal status. 'The police need a search warrant to enter his house.'


Input:
LUs: прорезаться
Example: Зазор улыбки прорезался.
FN Name: Gesture
FN Core FEs: Communicator > Addressee > Message > Body_part > Indicated_entity
FN Definition: The words in this frame have to do with non-verbal communication. Topic is not normally expressed with these words. This seems to be related to the absence of a verbal code in cases of gestural communication. Topic can be viewed as a partial characterization of a Message, but such partial characterization is either difficult or irrelevant in the absence of a verbal code.   'I gestured with my hand for him to come over.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This is the sentient entity that communicates a Message non-verbally. It is normally expressed as an External Argument: The teacher gestured us into the room.  > This is the person to whom a non-verbal Message is communicated. It may be expressed as an NP Object or as a PP Complement: The teacher gestured us into the room. The teacher gestured to us to enter the room.  > This is the content of non-verbal communication. It may be expressed as a that-clause Complement, a to-marked infinitive VP Complement, or a directional PP Complement: The teacher gestured that it was time to leave. The teacher gestured to us to enter the room. The teacher gestured us into the room.  > The Body_part is the specific body part of the Communicator which gestures. > The Indicated_entity is the entity which the Communicator is pointing out to the Addressee as meaningful.


Input:
LUs: противопоставить
Example: Он противопоставляет героев Достоевского героям Булгакова.
FN Name: Taking_sides
FN Core FEs: Cognizer > Issue > Side > Action
FN Definition: A Cognizer has a relatively fixed positive or negative point of view towards an Issue.  A Side in a debate concerning an Issue or an Action of a Side may stand in for the Issue.  The Cognizer's Degree of alignment may also be specified.  'In interviews , it seems like everyone is completely against this expenditure .'
FN Core FEs definitions: The individual that holds an opinion on an Issue or Side. > The matter, usually concerning a course of action, which the Cognizer has a positive or negative opinion about. > The party or individual (generally associated with a particular position on an Issue) that the Cognizer has an opinion about. > An action taken by a Side or a view that the Side takes on an issue which the Cognizer either supports or opposes.  


Input:
LUs: прочитать
Example: Однажды я прочитал ему Бунина.
FN Name: Reading_activity
FN Core FEs: Reader > Text > Topic
FN Definition: A Reader visually examines a Text, typically in a linear order, to understand its content.  In place of the Text, a Topic may be mentioned.  'She ca n't read . INI' 'They read the bible nightly .' 'I 've read about you !'  '' This frame differs from the Reading_perception frame, which obligatorily focuses on the perceptual and cognitive interpretive aspects of reading; unlike Reading_activity, targets in Reading_perception require explicit mention of the Text being examined.  While Reading_activity is broad enough to cover the same circumstances as Reading_perception, it also covers situations where reading is contrasted merely with another task or leisure activity, when reading is considered generically, and when the Topic unifying the reading activity replaces mention of a Text. '' Additionally, this frame differs from Hearsay in that Reading_activity is focused on what the Reader is agentively doing, whereas in Hearsay, the focus is on what the Hearer knows and how they know it.  As a result, most valences are unambiguous: full clause complements for the Message point to the Hearsay frame, while Text or lack of any complement indicates the Reading_activity frame.  The only overlap is in the case of Topic, where the frames can be still distinguished by factivity of the Topic.  In other words, read.v used in the Hearsay frame, just like hear.v in the Hearsay frame, when used with a Topic, indicates clearly that there is some specific fact related to the Topic that the reader or hearer now knows and understands. Thus the first and second of the following sentences belong to Hearsay, the last to Reading_activity: 'Yes, I read about how you won teacher of the year .' 'I just read about the accident .' '' 'I was reading about dinosaurs all day.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The one who examines a Text to understand it. > The entity that contains linguistic symbols. > The idea that an implicit Text or texts focuses on.  'I love reading about history .'


Input:
LUs: прочитать
Example: В моем взоре говоривший прочитал злобу и изумление.
FN Name: Reading_perception
FN Core FEs: Reader > Text
FN Definition: The Reader attends to a Text to process its information.  Sometimes a particular kind of Sought_phenomenon is sought in the Text. '' The metaphor which allows motion verbs plus "through" to express reading (e.g. "went through the text", "slogging through the phonebook", "sped through the dialogue passages") is considered to be productive, and thus should be annotated in the Motion frames.  The metaphor applies most productively to motion verbs that do not specify motor program and either specify no manner information at all (e.g. "go") or only specify the manner of motion in terms of difficulty and/or speed ("slog", "speed"), although other verbs with specific information ("saunter", "swim") may occur in more colorful usage.  'I read A Tale of Two Cities last night.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The one who examines a Text to understand it. > The entity that contains linguistic symbols.


Input:
LUs: прятать
Example: Ольга прячет письма в ящик .
FN Name: Hiding_objects
FN Core FEs: Hidden_object > Agent > Hiding_place
FN Definition: An Agent causes a Hidden_object to become perceptually inaccessible to potential perceivers by placing it in a Hiding_place or putting in place an Obstruction that screens the object.  'Therefore, as I passed the school, I hid the gun and holster in the mailbox'  'Gruenwald hid the money at a local garbage dump then retrieved it the following morning.'  'In later books Harry often tries to hide his scar with his hair. '
FN Core FEs definitions: The Hidden_object is the entity which is blocked from view.  'Michael Jackson gave wine to the 13-year-old cancer patient at the center of the molestation charges he's battling but concealed it inside a Coke can.' > The Agent is the person who causes the Hidden_entity to be not perceptually accessible to potential perceivers.  'The deputy concealed the bayonet under his coat.' > The location in which the Hidden_object is placed so as not to be perceptually accessible.   'He had concealed the necklace behind him.'


Input:
LUs: путать
Example: Ветер путал седые пряди его волос.
FN Name: Rope_manipulation
FN Core FEs: Agent > Rope > Knot
FN Definition: An Agent manipulates a linear entity (the Rope) to form a Knot.  'Harry tied the rope into a slipknot.' 'Patty and Selma knotted the ties of their aprons.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is the sentient being who manipulates the Rope.  'Melissa braided Jessica's hair.' > The basically linear object which is manipulated by the Agent to produce a Knot.  'He tied an electrical cable around the trunk and his neck before hanging himself .' > The stable configuration of a Rope which results from tying.  'Jake tied the cravat into an acceptable knot.'


Input:
LUs: радовать
Example: Меня радует, что вы приехали .
FN Name: Emotions
FN Core FEs: Experiencer > Topic > Stimulus > Expressor > State > Event
FN Definition: An Experiencer has a particular emotional State, which may be described in terms of a specific Stimulus that provokes it, or a Topic which categorizes the kind of Stimulus.  Rather than expressing the Experiencer directly, it may (metonymically) have in its place a particular Event (with participants who are Experiencers of the emotion) or an Expressor (a body-part of gesture which would give an indication of the Experiencer's state to an external observer).
FN Core FEs definitions: The Experiencer is the person or sentient entity that experiences or feels the emotions.   > The Topic is the general area in which the emotion occurs.  It indicates a range of possible Stimulus.   > The Stimulus is the person, event, or state of affairs that evokes the emotional response in the Experiencer.   > The body part, gesture, or other expression of the Experiencer that reflects his or her emotional state.  They describe a presentation of the experience or emotion denoted by the adjective or noun.   > The State is the abstract noun that describes a more lasting experience by the Experiencer.   > The Event is the occasion or happening that Experiencers in a certain emotional state participate in. 


Input:
LUs: разбить
Example: Он разбил стекло вдребезги.
FN Name: Breaking_apart
FN Core FEs: Whole > Pieces
FN Definition: A Whole breaks apart into Pieces, resulting in the loss of the Whole (and in most cases, no piece that has a separate function).  'The plane violently broke apart in mid-air.'  'And then, I finally realized that it must have been the case that a meteorite broke apart into at least 3 large pieces.'  Many of these verbs can also refer metaphorically to the breaking apart of institutions. (See the frame for "schism".)
FN Core FEs definitions: The Whole goes into Pieces which were not (necessarily) definable subparts prior to breaking. > The Pieces result from the breaking apart of the Whole.


Input:
LUs: разбить > расстроить
Example: Сначала он наступил на зайцев, разбил шеренгу, потом сориентировался, сел на пол, нашарил двух и, держа их за уши, понёс в чужой угол.
FN Name: Render_nonfunctional
FN Core FEs: Agent > Artifact > Cause
FN Definition: An Agent affects an Artifact so that it is no longer capable of performing its inherent function.  'I broke the TV.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The sentient entity causes the Artifact to not function. > The device that no longer works. > An inanimate entity or force that renders the Artifact non-functional.


Input:
LUs: разбить > разрушить > рубить
Example: После плавных линий запева выскочит дерзкий уступ, разобьёт тягучесть неволи свободным скачком, и опять тягота без конца.
FN Name: Destroying
FN Core FEs: Destroyer > Patient > Cause
FN Definition: A Destroyer (a conscious entity) or Cause (an event, or an entity involved in such an event) affects the Patient negatively so that the Patient no longer exists.  'An asteroid obliterated the dinosaurs.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The conscious entity, generally a person, that performs the intentional action that results in the Patient's destruction.  'Who can unmake the ring?' > The entity which is destroyed by the Destroyer.  'Who can unmake the ring?' > The event or entity which is responsible for the destruction of the Patient. 'The subsequent explosions leveled most downtown office buildings.' 'Tornados vaporized this town a few decades back.'


Input:
LUs: развернуть
Example: На Ямале  развернут добычу газа .
FN Name: Launch_process
FN Core FEs: Process > Agent
FN Definition: An Agent acts to begin the life of a Process.  'After discovering her knack for organization, she decided to try to  launch a career in human resources.'  'The City of Bratislava has launched a pilot project of providing internet access in the city centre.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This Frame Element marks expressions that indicate the process that the Agent initiates. > The Agent is the actor responsible for starting the Process.


Input:
LUs: развернуться
Example: События разворачивались стремительно.
FN Name: Process_continue
FN Core FEs: 
FN Definition: An Event continues at a certain Place through Time.  (Note that often when 'continue.v' occurs with definite time points, it denotes Resumption, which is out of frame here.) NB:  Refer to Process frame. '' 'Pyongyang agreed to suspend its withdrawal while talks continued with Washington.'  'Missions and different plans proceed according to Islamic law provision.'
FN Core FEs definitions: 


Input:
LUs: разобрать
Example: Мы разбираем предложение по членам предложения .
FN Name: Speak_on_topic
FN Core FEs: Audience > Speaker > Topic
FN Definition: A Speaker addresses an Audience on a particular Topic.  The Audience is generally passive, although for many types of address (including academic talks and press conferences), a discussion or question-answer period is virtually always required.  'McNamara addressed congress on the state of affairs of the Department of Defense.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person or persons to whom the Speaker delivers their text.  'He lectured to the officers of the Scots Guard  in  1929.' > The person who orally delivers a text about a Topic to a passive Audience.  'You have to sermonize about the good times' > What the text that the Speaker produces is about.  'He was the Director: he could lecture on whomever he liked.'  


Input:
LUs: разобрать
Example: -.
FN Name: biological_urge
FN Core FEs: Experiencer > Expressor > State
FN Definition: An Experiencer is in a State where a biological urge is signaling the need to perform a certain action such as eating, drinking, stopping exertion, sleeping, regurgitating, or having sex. The Duration, Time, Place, or Degree of intensity associated with the occurrence of the urge may also be indicated.  In this frame, the Experiencer does not necessarily want to perform the action that would fulfill the urge, and there is no specific focus associated with the urge.  'Mike feels hungry.'  'Sam was thirsty after dinner.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Experiencer receives the biological signal and possesses the internal experience which is a reaction to the phsyical signal. 'Mr. Burns was sexually aroused.' > Expressor is used for a gesture, expression, or body part indicating that the Experiencer is feeling a certain urge.  'He gave me a tired shrug and then looked down again.' > State identifies the Experiencer's state of being.  'She was alarmed by John's hungry <fex  name = "State">state.'


Input:
LUs: расти
Example: У него растет борода.
FN Name: Expansion
FN Core FEs: Item
FN Definition: An Item changes its physical size.  The Size_change of an Item may be explicitly indicated or characterized in terms of Initial_size and/or Result_size.  In the default case, expansion is along all dimensions, but sometimes the Dimension of expansion is incorporated or made explicit. '' This frame does not specify whether the Item gains mass or substance along with the change in size, and thus includes words that specify an increase in substance (grow.v) along with those that deny an increase in substance (stretch.v) and those that are unspecified (expand.v).  'The pile of leaves had shrunk by about half after the first haul.'  'The jeans stretched a little.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE identifies the Item whose size changes. 'Joan's new sweater shrank to a size that might fit a doll.'


Input:
LUs: расти
Example: Во мне росло раздражение.
FN Name: Getting_up
FN Core FEs: Protagonist > Bed
FN Definition: A Protagonist leaves the place where they have slept, their Bed, to begin or resume domestic, professional, or other activities. Getting up is distinct from Waking up, which is concerned only with the transition from the sleeping state to a wakeful state.  'I rose from bed, threw on a pair of camouflage shorts and drove my little Toyota Corolla to a construction clearing a few miles away.' 'One recent Monday, for example, Joe rose from bed extra early to catch an administrator at 8:30 am.'  'In the summer I get up early and get some miles in on my bike before the kids and Ange wake up. INI'  'He slept or threw up the whole day. He got up for 2 hours in the evening.  INI'  'When it snowed Smithers got up before everyone else at two o'clock and swept the walkways. INI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The person or animal that has slept in a particular place and now leaves it to engage in other activities.  ' Melony got up from bed and changed clothes getting ready to go to the doctor.' > The place where the Protagonist has slept.  'She got up from bed lazily and stretched her body and yawned.'


Input:
LUs: расти
Example: На юге растет бук .
FN Name: Agriculture
FN Core FEs: Agriculturist > Food > Ground
FN Definition: In this frame an Agriculturist cultivates Food.  The location or Ground where the Food is cultivated by the Agriculturist is often expressed.  '' 'Peasants were encouraged to cultivate basic food crops such as beans and corn'.  'Shrimp farming seems to be a recipe for disaster'  'Some fields were probably cultivated only in the dry season CNI'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agriculturist is the agent cultivating Food. > Food is the item cultivated by the Agriculturist.  'They cultivate fungi.' > This is the the background or context for the Food to which the Agriculturist pays attention in his agricultural efforts.  'Romans were cultivating the land in Northern Gaul.'


Input:
LUs: скрыться
Example: Из города скрылся опасный преступник.
FN Name: Escaping
FN Core FEs: Escapee > Undesirable_location
FN Definition: A Self-moving Escapee departs from an Undesirable_location.   'Benjamin escaped from Germany.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Escapee manages to leave the Undesirable_location. 'Benjamin escaped from Germany.' > The Undesirable_location is where the Escapee begins.  'Benjamin escaped  from Germany.'


Input:
LUs: скучать
Example: Дети скучают от безделья.
FN Name: State_continue
FN Core FEs: Entity
FN Definition: Despite some implication that a State would be interrupted, the Entity remains in the specified State. Note that State includes locative relations.  'Online security remains elusive.' ''
FN Core FEs definitions: A concrete or abstract Entity.


Input:
LUs: смотреть
Example: Хозяйка смотрела, чтобы никто ничего не унес.
FN Name: Responsibility
FN Core FEs: Agent
FN Definition: An Agent is responsible for having intentionally performed an Act or for being the or a primary instigator behind the Act. There is often a sense of negative evaluation of the Agent for having done so.  'It has been determined that a relatively unknown terrorist group is responsible for the recent attacks.'  Note: the noun responsibility in this frame frequently occurs with take and claim. These words are considered controllers (rather than supports), as they express events of communication rather than the static relationship of responsibility.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent performs the intentional act.


Input:
LUs: снабдить
Example: Кто снабжает фабрику?.
FN Name: Funding
FN Core FEs: Supplier > Recipient > Imposed_purpose
FN Definition: A Supplier gives funds to a Recipient to fulfill a need or purpose (Imposed_purpose) of the Recipient.   'The University funded Paige so that she could complete her doctorate.'  ''  Often, the Imposed_purpose appears as a direct object of the target verb instead of the Recipient. With these, the Imposed_purpose can either be metonymically linked to some Recipient, in which case the Recipient FE is marked as DNI: 'Investors financed the software start-up.DNI'   or it can explicitly encompass the Recipient, in which case the Recipient part is annotated on a second FE layer: 'Lobbyists backed the senator's campaign for president.' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . the senator's
FN Core FEs definitions: Supplier is the person or entity that funds the Recipient or Imposed_purpose.  'Investors bankrolled the software start-up early on.'   > Recipient is the person, people, or organization funded by the Supplier.   'Some governments fund students so that they can obtain doctorates and enter public service.'  > Imposed_purpose is the intended purpose of the funding.   'The board agreed to finance the research program.'


Input:
LUs: сопровождаться
Example: Кадры фильма сопровождались инструментальной музыкой.
FN Name: Cotheme
FN Core FEs: Theme > Cotheme > Source > Path > Goal > Area > Road > Direction
FN Definition: This frame contains words that necessarily indicate the motion of two distinct objects. The Theme is typically animate and is expressed the same way a Self-mover is expressed in the Self-motion frame--i.e. as the subject of a target verb. The Cotheme may or may not be animate and is typically expressed as a direct object or an oblique. Source, Path, Goal, and the other frame elements common to motion words also regularly occur with the words in this frame.  '' 'She accompanied him in the ambulance to Hollywood Memorial Hospital.'  'Police persue teenage joyrider across three counties.'  'My pursuit of academic superiority shows that I was still striving to be the person my parents wanted me to be.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This is the entity, frequently a living being, which moves in relation to the Cotheme. Normally the Theme frame element is expressed as an external argument.  'Pat accompanied me for five miles in a blue Toyota.'' The squirrel chased the nut across the road.'  > This frame element is the second moving object, expressed as a direct object or an oblique:   'Pat accompanied  me down the street.'  'The squirrel chased  after the nut . ' > Source marks any expression which implies a definite starting-point of the motion of the Cotheme. In prepositional phrases, the  object expresses the starting point of motion. With particles, the starting point of motion is understood from context.  'The cat chased the mouse out of the house.'  'The cat chased the mouse out.'  > Path marks phrases that describe the Theme and Cotheme's trajectory of motion and which are neither expressions of the  Source nor the Goal of motion. The notion Path also includes directional expressions. ' The bikers followed the truck west.'  'The bikers followed the truck through the desert. ' > Any expression which tells where the Cotheme ends up as a result of the motion expresses the frame element Goal. Note that if the Cotheme is animate, the Theme need not also end up in the same place. Some particles imply the existence of a Goal which is understood in the context of utterance.  'The children chased the ball into the park. (The children end up in the park.)' 'The children chased the dog into the park.  (The dog ends up in the park; the children may not have entered the park.) ' > Area marks expressions which describe a general area in which the motion of Theme and Cotheme takes place when the motion is understood to be irregular and not to consist of a single linear path. Locative setting adjuncts of motion expressions may also be assigned this frame element. 'The police followed the suspects all around town. ' > Phrases that denote a physical path on which the motion of Theme and Cotheme takes place are marked Road.'The police followed the suspect on the interstate for several miles.' > The direction in which the Theme and Cotheme move.  'The tracking dogs chased their target towards the river, where they lost it.'


Input:
LUs: сохранить
Example: Ей удалось сохранить только семейный архив , все остальное погибло.
FN Name: Storing
FN Core FEs: Agent > Theme > Location
FN Definition: An Agent has placed a Theme in an accessible but somewhat out of the way Location for the purposes of maintaining it free from harm and illegitimate use while it is not being used.
FN Core FEs definitions: The Agent is the person who has placed the Theme in the Location.   > The Theme is the object that is kept in a Location by the Agent > The location where the Theme is kept. Some, though not all, LUs in this frame incorporate this FE. 


Input:
LUs: сохранить
Example: Она сохранила одежду от моли.
FN Name: Existence
FN Core FEs: Entity
FN Definition: An Entity is declared to exist, generally irrespective of its position or even the possibility of its position being specified. Time, Duration, Inherent_purpose, and State may also be mentioned.  This frame is to be contrasted with Presence, which describes the existence of an Entity in a particular (and salient) spacio-temporal context, and which also entails the presence of an observer who can detect the existence of the Entity in that context.  'Finally, Poland ceased to exist as a state for hundreds of years.' 'Such laws exist to prevent exactly this kind of fraud.' 'There IS a Santa Claus!'
FN Core FEs definitions: Some entity, abstract or concrete, which is stated to exist.


Input:
LUs: спасти
Example: Верный пес спас мальчика от смерти .
FN Name: Rescuing
FN Core FEs: Agent > Patient > Asset > Harmful_situation
FN Definition: An Agent saves a Patient or an Asset from a Harmful_situation.   'Israeli commandos rescued the hostages and left.'   'His German shepherd saved him from drowing once.'  'She saved my life on the bridge yesterday.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The sentient being who rescues the Patient or Asset from the Harmful_situation.  'He rescued the innocent girl from a fate worse than death. ' > The living being who is rescued by the Agent.  'Three foxes were saved from being savagely ripped apart.' > The entity that is judged to be valueable which might be lost or damaged by the Harmful_situation.  'She saved countless lives during her short stay on the plantation.' > An event that occurs which could result in injury or harm to the Patient or Asset.  'Three foxes were saved from being savagely ripped apart.'


Input:
LUs: спасти
Example: Мой друг спас меня от скуки .
FN Name: Assistance
FN Core FEs: Benefited_party > Helper > Goal > Focal_entity
FN Definition: A Helper benefits a Benefited_party by enabling the culmination of a Goal that the Benefited_party has.  A Focal_entity that is involved in reaching the Goal may stand in for it.  This Frame has unique Frame-to-Frame Relations: it inherits from and uses the Intentionally_act frame. This is atypical of FrameNet's frame relations.  'Will you help the Government find your brother?' 'Maybe Stephen should assist him with the last manuscript.' 'They helped me psychologically to overcome the physical loss I had suffered.' 'You have helped him tremendously by showing him  how to stand up for himself and by being his friend.' 'By bringing assistance to his troops wherever they were in trouble he aided them greatly.'
FN Core FEs definitions: The Benefited_party receives a benefit from the action of the Helper. > The Helper performs some action that benefits the Benefited_party. > The desirable state of affairs that the Benefited_party is involved in and which is enabled by the Helper.  'Jack helped Jill climb Mt. Everest.' > This FE identifies a Focal_entity involved in achieving the Goal. 'Whoever didn't cook has to help with the dishes.'


Input:
LUs: ссориться
Example: Не понимаю, из-за чего они ссорятся.
FN Name: Quarreling
FN Core FEs: Arguers > Arguer1 > Arguer2 > Issue
FN Definition: A group of Arguers (also expressible as Arguer1 and Arguer2) express incompatible opinions or beliefs about an Issue.  'We bickered about semantics for an hour.'
FN Core FEs definitions: A group of people in an argument.   > A person who is arguing with Arguer2. > The person who is being argued with by Arguer1.  'Why are you arguing with us.' > The the thing the the Arguers are arguing over or about.


Input:
LUs: стонать
Example: Баладжанов стонал от боли, но сознание не терял.
FN Name: make_noise
FN Core FEs: Sound_source > Sound > Noisy_event
FN Definition: A physical entity, construed as a point-Sound_source, emits a Sound.  This includes animals and people making noise with their vocal tracts. Sometimes the sound itself is referred to with a nominal expression, in which case it is called the Sound. Manner expressions may also be relevant in this frame, if they describe properties of the sound as such.  A path-schema can be overlaid on the simple noise-making scene, adding a Location_of_source and/or a Path.   This frame does not cover scenarios where objects create sound by coming into forceful contact with one another or rubbing against each other. Such scenarios are covered by the Impact and Friction frames. The current frame also does not cover cases where an animate Agent or a natural Force or Cause causes a single Source or several Sources (moving or rubbing against each other) to make noise. Such scenarios are  covered by the Cause_to_make_noise, Cause_impact and Cause_friction frames (the latter of which is not yet existent). Cases where the major emphasis of the portrayed scene is on the motion of a Theme, with sound emission only an accompaniment, are covered by the Motion_noise frame. Likewise, cases where the Sound itself is portrayed as moving through space are not covered in this frame but rather in Sound_movement. Finally, all nouns used to evoke Sounds have been placed in the Sounds frame. We have done this because these nouns do  not denote sound emission/production events but only the Sound itself (*The siren's blare occurred right on time).
FN Core FEs definitions: The frame element Sound_source is assigned to a constituent referring to a physical entity which emits a sound. Such an entity must have an appropriately complex internal structure such that it can create a sound. For example, a machine or some other thing with moving parts can create sound by itself.    'The wind howled.'    > The frame element Sound is incorporated in the meaning of the verbs of this frame. Otherwise, this FE is assigned to NPs which actually refer to a sound in the presence of the target. This typically occurs when the target is a verb used as a modifier in its -ing form, e.g.:   'The branches made a rattling sound.'  In this example, the frame element Sound is actually expressed by the word sound.   Sometimes, Sound just occurs as an NP argument of a tensed verb form. 'Heavy music thundered from leather-curtained basements' > An event in which one or more Sound_sources participate and which is accompanied by Sound.   'The conversations droned on'


Input:
LUs: пострадать
Example: Тысячи людей пострадали от засухи.
FN Name: Eventive_affecting
FN Core FEs: Entity
FN Definition: An Entity undergoes some change (the Event) that is (or is construed as) punctual.  (This frame exists mainly to allow common FEs to be inherited.)  'This happens to me all the time.'  'The area was struck by tragedy in 1996, when an assassin killed 35 people in Port Arthur.'
FN Core FEs definitions: This FE identifies the entity, concrete or abstract.